---
draft: true
title: Banded Archerfish
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Toxotes jaculatrix, commonly known as the Banded Archerfish, is a fascinating brackish water fish famous for its
  unique ability to spit water to hunt insects above the water surface.
---

## Overview

**Toxotes jaculatrix**, known as the Banded Archerfish, is a remarkable fish native to brackish and freshwater habitats
in Southeast Asia and Northern Australia. This species is famous for its unique hunting technique, where it shoots jets
of water to knock down insects and other prey from overhanging vegetation. Growing to an average size of 15-20 cm (6-8
inches), the Banded Archerfish is a popular choice among aquarists who are looking for a fascinating and interactive
species. They have a distinct silver body with black vertical bands, giving them a striking appearance in any aquarium.

## Tank Requirements

The Banded Archerfish thrives in a brackish water environment with a large tank of at least 200 liters (50 gallons) to
accommodate their active swimming and hunting behavior. The water temperature should be maintained between 24-30°C
(75-86°F), with a pH range of 7.0 to 8.5 and a general hardness (GH) of 10-20. It is crucial to provide a mix of fresh
and marine water to create the appropriate brackish conditions, which mimic their natural habitat. The tank should have
plenty of open swimming spaces along with floating plants and overhangs to simulate the natural environment and
encourage their hunting behavior.

## Feeding and Diet

Toxotes jaculatrix is an opportunistic feeder with a diet that primarily consists of insects and small crustaceans. In
the wild, they are known for their incredible ability to spit water with remarkable accuracy to hunt insects perched
above the water. In captivity, they can be fed a varied diet of live or frozen foods such as crickets, flies, mealworms,
brine shrimp, and daphnia. Floating pellets and flakes can also be included, but live prey is essential to stimulate
their natural hunting behavior and keep them mentally engaged.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for Banded Archerfish requires maintaining brackish water conditions, which involves carefully monitoring
salinity levels and water quality. Regular water changes and filtration are essential to keep the tank environment
healthy. These fish are generally peaceful but can become aggressive towards smaller tank mates, especially during
feeding. They should be kept with other brackish water species of similar size and temperament. Because of their unique
hunting technique, it's important to keep the tank covered to prevent them from jumping out while targeting prey.

## Compatibility

The Banded Archerfish is best kept in a species-specific setup or with other brackish water species like monos, scats,
and some gobies. They are generally peaceful but can be semi-aggressive, especially when feeding or if kept in too small
of an aquarium. It's important to ensure that all tank mates are large enough not to be seen as food and are capable of
thriving in brackish water conditions. Providing plenty of space and environmental enrichment will help reduce stress
and aggression among tank inhabitants.

## Breeding

Breeding Toxotes jaculatrix in captivity is challenging and rarely achieved. In their natural habitat, they breed in
brackish waters where specific salinity conditions are met. There is limited information about their breeding behavior
in captivity, and they are not known to have been bred successfully in home aquariums. If breeding is attempted, it
would require replicating the seasonal changes and specific environmental conditions they would encounter in the wild.
