---
draft: true
title: Tambraparni Barb
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Dawkinsia tambraparniei, or the Tambraparni Barb, is a peaceful species known for its striking appearance and
  schooling behavior, commonly found in fast-moving streams.
---

## Overview

**Dawkinsia tambraparniei**, commonly known as the **Tambraparni Barb**, is a freshwater fish species native to the
Tambraparni River in southern India. These fish are known for their vibrant colors, especially the males, which display
a brilliant combination of red, yellow, and black during the breeding season. Typically growing between 8-10 cm, the
Tambraparni Barb thrives in fast-moving waters with plenty of vegetation and can live up to 5-7 years under optimal
conditions.

## Tank Requirements

The **Tambraparni Barb** requires a minimum tank size of 120 liters with water temperatures between 22-28Â°C, pH levels
of 6.0-7.5, and water hardness (GH) between 5-15. Due to their natural habitat in flowing streams, they appreciate
strong water currents and a well-oxygenated environment. A tank setup with plenty of swimming space, plants, and hiding
spots like rocks or driftwood will make them feel at home.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, **Dawkinsia tambraparniei** feeds on small insects, algae, and plant material. In an aquarium, they accept
a wide range of foods, including high-quality flakes, pellets, live or frozen foods such as daphnia, brine shrimp, and
bloodworms. A balanced diet that includes both plant-based and protein-rich foods is essential for their health and
coloration.

## Care and Maintenance

Regular maintenance is required to keep the water clean and the environment stable. Weekly water changes (around 20-30%)
and monitoring water parameters are important to ensure a healthy ecosystem. The **Tambraparni Barb** is sensitive to
poor water quality, so a good filtration system and maintaining strong water movement are crucial.

## Compatibility

**Tambraparni Barbs** are peaceful schooling fish that do well in groups of six or more. They are best kept with other
similarly sized, peaceful species like tetras, rasboras, and other barbs. Avoid keeping them with aggressive or much
larger fish. Their schooling behavior makes them a great addition to a community tank.

## Breeding

Breeding **Dawkinsia tambraparniei** in captivity can be achieved with proper preparation. The males become more
colorful during the breeding season. To encourage spawning, slightly raise the water temperature and provide a
well-planted tank with flat surfaces where eggs can be laid. The female will scatter the eggs, and the adults should be
removed after spawning to prevent them from eating the eggs. The fry can be fed with microfoods and newly hatched brine
shrimp.
