---
draft: true
title: Chanda ranga
aliases: ["Rang Fish", "Sundarbans Glassfish"]
excerpt:
  Chanda ranga, commonly known as the Rang Fish or Sundarbans Glassfish, is a small and delicate freshwater fish from
  South Asia, valued for its translucent body and peaceful nature.
---

## Overview

_Chanda ranga_, also known as the Rang Fish or Sundarbans Glassfish, is a small, translucent fish native to the
freshwater rivers and streams of South Asia. This species is admired for its delicate, glass-like appearance and
peaceful temperament. The Rang Fish is a popular choice for aquarists seeking a unique and visually appealing addition
to their freshwater tanks.

## Tank Requirements

Rang Fish thrive in aquariums with a minimum volume of 60 liters. They prefer a temperature range of 22-28°C and a pH
level between 6.5 and 7.5. The tank should have a soft, sandy substrate and be equipped with gentle filtration to mimic
their natural habitat. Providing plants and driftwood will help create a more natural environment and offer hiding
spots. Regular water changes and stable water conditions are essential for their health.

## Feeding and Diet

_Chanda ranga_ is an omnivorous species with a diet that should include high-quality flake food, micro-pellets, and
occasional live or frozen foods such as daphnia, brine shrimp, and bloodworms. In the wild, they feed on small
invertebrates and aquatic organisms. Offering a varied diet will help maintain their health and vibrant appearance.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for Rang Fish involves maintaining clean and stable water conditions. Perform regular water changes of 20-30%
weekly to ensure good water quality. Monitor the fish for common health issues like ich or fin rot and address any
problems promptly. Due to their peaceful nature, they can be kept with other small, non-aggressive species, creating a
harmonious community tank.

## Compatibility

_Chanda ranga_ is a very peaceful and schooling fish, making it ideal for community tanks with other small,
non-aggressive species. They are best kept in groups to reduce stress and encourage natural behavior. Avoid housing them
with larger or more aggressive species, as they may become targets of aggression. A well-planned community tank with
compatible species will enhance their well-being.

## Breeding

Breeding _Chanda ranga_ in captivity can be challenging but is possible with the right setup. They are egg scatterers
and will lay their eggs in a well-planted area of the tank. To encourage breeding, maintain a temperature around 26-28°C
and provide a well-planted tank with plenty of hiding spots. After spawning, the eggs will hatch in about 24-48 hours.
The fry can be fed infusoria or finely crushed food once they are free-swimming. Proper care and monitoring are
essential to ensure successful breeding and healthy fry.
