---
draft: true
title: Blue Perch
aliases: [Dwarf Badis, Badis]
excerpt:
  The Blue Perch, known for its vibrant colors and unique behavior, is a small, peaceful fish that thrives in
  well-planted aquariums with hiding spots.
---

## Overview

The Blue Perch (Badis badis) is a small, colorful fish from the Badidae family, native to freshwater rivers and streams
in South Asia, particularly in India, Nepal, and Bangladesh. With a size ranging from 5 to 8 cm, the Blue Perch is
admired for its stunning colors, which can change depending on its mood. This species is known for its peaceful nature,
although males can become territorial, especially during breeding.

## Tank Requirements

Blue Perch requires a well-maintained aquarium with a minimum volume of 60 liters. They prefer water temperatures
between 22-26°C, a pH range of 6.5 to 7.5, and water hardness (GH) between 5-15. The tank should be heavily planted,
providing plenty of hiding places with rocks, driftwood, and caves, which are essential for their comfort and breeding.
A gentle water flow mimicking their natural habitat is ideal.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, Blue Perch feeds on small invertebrates, insects, and crustaceans. In an aquarium, they thrive on a diet of
live or frozen foods such as bloodworms, brine shrimp, and daphnia. They can be fed high-quality pellets, but they may
show reluctance to accept dry foods, especially initially. It's important to feed them a varied diet to maintain their
vibrant colors and health.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for Blue Perch involves regular water changes of 20-30% weekly and maintaining stable water parameters. They are
relatively hardy but can be sensitive to sudden changes in water conditions. It's essential to provide a stress-free
environment by keeping the tank well-planted and ensuring they have adequate hiding places. Regular monitoring for signs
of stress or disease is crucial, as they can be prone to skin flukes and other parasitic infections.

## Compatibility

Blue Perch is generally peaceful but can be territorial, especially during breeding. They are best kept in species-only
tanks or with other small, non-aggressive fish. Avoid housing them with larger, more aggressive species that might
intimidate or outcompete them. They do well with peaceful tank mates like tetras, rasboras, and small catfish. It's
recommended to keep only one male per tank unless the aquarium is large enough to establish distinct territories.

## Breeding

Breeding Blue Perch can be challenging due to their territorial nature. A separate breeding tank with plenty of hiding
spots is recommended. Males will establish territories and display vibrant colors to attract females. After spawning,
the male guards the eggs until they hatch in 2-3 days. The fry can be fed infusoria or newly hatched brine shrimp once
they are free-swimming. It’s important to keep the breeding tank well-maintained with stable water conditions to ensure
successful breeding.
