---
draft: true
title: Clown Rasbora
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Rasbora kalochroma, commonly known as the Clown Rasbora, is a vibrant and peaceful species native to Southeast Asia,
  known for its bright coloration and suitability for community aquariums.
---

## Overview

**Rasbora kalochroma**, commonly known as the Clown Rasbora, is a striking fish from the family Cyprinidae, native to
the blackwater streams and peat swamps of Southeast Asia, particularly in Borneo, Sumatra, and the Malay Peninsula. This
species is appreciated by aquarists for its vivid red to orange coloration, which is accented with a distinctive dark
lateral stripe running from the snout through the eye to the tail. The Clown Rasbora is a peaceful, schooling fish that
thrives in a well-planted community aquarium.

## Tank Requirements

Clown Rasboras prefer a tank with a minimum volume of 80 liters (approximately 21 gallons) to provide adequate space for
schooling behavior. The ideal water conditions include a temperature range of 24-28°C (75-82°F), a pH of 5.0-7.0, and a
general hardness (GH) of 1-10. These fish are most comfortable in soft, acidic water, replicating their natural
blackwater habitat. To mimic these conditions, use driftwood, leaf litter, and peat filtration to soften the water and
introduce tannins, which will darken the water and help simulate their natural environment.

## Feeding and Diet

**Rasbora kalochroma** are omnivorous and have a varied diet in the wild, consisting of small insects, crustaceans, and
plant matter. In an aquarium setting, they will readily accept high-quality flake or pellet foods. To keep them healthy
and enhance their coloration, supplement their diet with live or frozen foods such as brine shrimp, daphnia, and
bloodworms. Feeding small amounts multiple times a day is recommended to mimic their natural feeding behavior and
maintain water quality.

## Care and Maintenance

Maintaining a stable environment is key to the health of Clown Rasboras. Regular water changes of 20-30% weekly are
recommended to keep the water parameters stable and free of excess nutrients. A gentle filtration system is ideal, as
these fish prefer calm waters. Given their sensitivity to water quality, it's important to monitor the water parameters
regularly. Adding floating plants can help diffuse lighting and provide a more natural environment, which these fish
appreciate.

## Compatibility

Clown Rasboras are peaceful and do well in a community tank with other non-aggressive species of similar size and
temperament. Ideal tank mates include other rasboras, small tetras, and peaceful bottom dwellers like Corydoras. They
should be kept in groups of at least six individuals to encourage natural schooling behavior and reduce stress. Avoid
housing them with larger, aggressive fish that could outcompete them for food or pose a threat.

## Breeding

Breeding **Rasbora kalochroma** in captivity can be challenging but is achievable under the right conditions. They are
egg scatterers and will lay their eggs among fine-leaved plants or over moss. To encourage breeding, set up a separate
breeding tank with soft, acidic water and densely planted with fine-leaved plants. The breeding pair should be
conditioned with a diet rich in live and frozen foods. Once eggs are laid, remove the parents to prevent them from
eating the eggs. The eggs will hatch in about 24-36 hours, and the fry should be fed infusoria or liquid fry food until
they are large enough to accept finely crushed flake food or micro-pellets.
