---
draft: true
title: Demasoni Cichlid
aliases: [Pseudotropheus demasoni]
excerpt:
  "Chindongo demasoni is a vibrant and territorial cichlid from Lake Tanganyika, known for its striking blue and black
  coloration."
---

## Overview

Chindongo demasoni, commonly known as the Demasoni Cichlid, is a stunningly beautiful species of cichlid native to Lake
Tanganyika in East Africa. This species is characterized by its vivid blue and black stripes, which make it one of the
most sought-after cichlids for aquarium enthusiasts. Known for its territorial behavior, the Demasoni Cichlid is best
kept in species-specific tanks or with other peaceful cichlids from the same region.

## Tank Requirements

The Demasoni Cichlid requires a minimum tank size of 150 liters. They thrive in slightly alkaline water with a pH range
of 7.5-8.5, and a water temperature of 24-28°C. The general hardness (GH) should be kept between 10-20. The tank should
be well-filtered with good water movement to mimic the natural environment of Lake Tanganyika. Provide plenty of hiding
spots, caves, and rocks for them to establish territories.

## Feeding and Diet

Chindongo demasoni is omnivorous, feeding on a variety of foods in the wild, including algae, small invertebrates, and
detritus. In the aquarium, they can be fed high-quality pellets, spirulina-based foods, live or frozen foods such as
brine shrimp, and occasional vegetable matter. Feeding should be done twice a day, ensuring a varied diet to promote
their health and coloration.

## Care and Maintenance

This species requires a moderate level of care. Regular water changes (about 25% per week) are necessary to maintain
water quality. Keep an eye on water parameters, as they are sensitive to fluctuations. Demasoni Cichlids are
territorial, so make sure to provide enough space and hiding spots to reduce aggression, especially during breeding
periods. Regular tank cleaning and monitoring of the fish’s health are important.

## Compatibility

Chindongo demasoni is a highly territorial fish, especially when it comes to breeding. It is best kept in a
species-specific tank or with other peaceful, similarly sized cichlids from Lake Tanganyika. Avoid keeping them with
overly aggressive or large fish that may intimidate or harm them. Tank mates should be chosen carefully to minimize
stress and aggression.

## Breeding

Breeding Chindongo demasoni in captivity can be challenging, as they are quite territorial, particularly during the
breeding season. To successfully breed them, it is recommended to keep a group of them in a large tank with plenty of
hiding spots and territories. The male will court the female by displaying vibrant colors and territory defense. Once
the female is ready, she will lay eggs in a cave or crevice, and the male will fertilize them. After hatching, the fry
should be cared for in a separate nursery tank, as the parents can be aggressive towards the young.
