---
draft: true
title: Compressed Cichlid
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Altolamprologus compressiceps, commonly known as the Compressed Cichlid, is a unique species of cichlid native to Lake
  Tanganyika in Africa, known for its distinctive body shape and predatory behavior.
---

## Overview

**Altolamprologus compressiceps**, also known as the Compressed Cichlid, is a fascinating species of cichlid from the
rocky shorelines of Lake Tanganyika in Africa. This species is notable for its laterally compressed body, which allows
it to navigate tight spaces among rocks and crevices. Growing to about 10-15 cm (4-6 inches) in length, Altolamprologus
compressiceps has a distinctive appearance with a large mouth adapted for preying on smaller fish and invertebrates. It
is known for its unique hunting strategy and striking appearance, making it a popular choice among cichlid enthusiasts.

## Tank Requirements

Altolamprologus compressiceps requires a minimum tank size of 100 liters (26 gallons), with a temperature range of
23-28°C (73-82°F). The water should have a pH between 7.5 and 9.0 and a general hardness (GH) of 10-20. The aquarium
should mimic their natural rocky habitat, with plenty of caves and hiding spots formed by rocks and stacked stones. A
sandy substrate is recommended to prevent injury to their delicate bodies. Good water quality and regular maintenance
are essential to keep them healthy, as they are sensitive to poor water conditions.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, Altolamprologus compressiceps primarily feeds on smaller fish, invertebrates, and crustaceans. In an
aquarium, they can be fed a varied diet that includes high-quality pellets or flakes, as well as frozen or live foods
like brine shrimp, daphnia, bloodworms, and small feeder fish. It's important to provide a diet rich in protein to
support their growth and overall health. Feeding should be done 1-2 times a day, ensuring all food is consumed within a
few minutes to prevent overfeeding and maintain water quality.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for Altolamprologus compressiceps involves maintaining high water quality and providing a stable environment with
minimal stress. Regular water changes (20-30% weekly) and efficient filtration are crucial to prevent the buildup of
toxins and maintain stable water parameters. Due to their territorial nature, it's important to provide enough hiding
spots and territories to reduce aggression among tank mates. Monitoring their health for signs of stress or disease,
such as changes in behavior or coloration, is essential for early detection and treatment.

## Compatibility

Altolamprologus compressiceps is a moderately aggressive species, especially during breeding or when establishing
territory. They can be kept with other similarly sized cichlids that are not overly aggressive, as well as other species
native to Lake Tanganyika, such as Julidochromis and Neolamprologus. Avoid keeping them with smaller fish that could be
seen as prey or with overly aggressive cichlids that might outcompete them for territory. A well-thought-out aquascape
with plenty of hiding spots can help reduce stress and aggression.

## Breeding

Breeding Altolamprologus compressiceps in captivity can be challenging due to their specific breeding behavior and
territorial nature. They are cave spawners, with females laying eggs in tight crevices or caves, where the male will
then fertilize them. To encourage breeding, provide multiple caves and crevices in the aquarium. Water parameters should
be stable, and the diet should be rich in protein to condition the breeding pair. After spawning, the female will guard
the eggs and fry. It is advisable to remove other tank mates during this period to prevent predation and reduce stress
on the breeding pair.
