---
draft: true
title: Saddled Bichir
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Polypterus endlicherii, commonly known as the Saddled Bichir, is a large and prehistoric-looking freshwater fish known
  for its unique appearance and hardy nature.
---

## Overview

Polypterus endlicherii, also known as the Saddled Bichir, is a large freshwater fish belonging to the Polypteridae
family. Native to slow-moving waters in Africa, this species is known for its distinctive appearance, featuring a long,
eel-like body and a series of dorsal finlets. They can reach sizes of 50-75 cm (20-30 inches) in captivity and have a
lifespan of 15-20 years with proper care. The Saddled Bichir is a nocturnal predator, known for its hardy nature and
ability to breathe air, allowing it to survive in low-oxygen environments.

## Tank Requirements

Polypterus endlicherii requires a large aquarium due to its potential size and active nature. A minimum tank size of 300
liters (75 gallons) is recommended, with a water temperature between 24-28°C (75-82°F), a pH range of 6.5-8.0, and
general hardness (GH) between 8-18 dGH. The tank should have a soft substrate, such as sand or fine gravel, to prevent
injury to their sensitive underbellies. Provide plenty of hiding spots with rocks, driftwood, and dense vegetation to
mimic their natural habitat. A tight-fitting lid is essential, as they are known to escape from tanks.

## Feeding and Diet

Saddled Bichirs are carnivorous and require a diet rich in protein. In their natural habitat, they feed on small fish,
crustaceans, and insects. In captivity, they can be fed a variety of meaty foods, including earthworms, shrimp, small
pieces of fish, and carnivorous pellets. They prefer live or frozen foods, but can also be trained to accept
high-quality pellets or sticks formulated for carnivorous fish. Feeding should occur 2-3 times per week, as they have a
slow metabolism. Ensure that food is appropriately sized to prevent choking or indigestion.

## Care and Maintenance

Polypterus endlicherii is a hardy species, but they require specific conditions to thrive. Regular water changes of
25-30% every two weeks are necessary to maintain water quality and remove waste. Ensure the tank has adequate filtration
to handle the bioload of this large fish, but avoid strong currents as they prefer calm waters. Monitoring water
parameters, such as temperature, pH, and hardness, is crucial to prevent stress and health issues. These fish are also
prone to jumping, so a secure tank lid is vital.

## Compatibility

Saddled Bichirs are generally peaceful but are predatory and will eat smaller fish that can fit into their mouths. They
are best kept with other large, non-aggressive tank mates, such as cichlids, larger catfish, or other bichir species.
Avoid housing them with small, fast-moving fish or invertebrates, as these may be considered prey. They can also be kept
in species-specific tanks to avoid compatibility issues. Always provide ample space and hiding spots to reduce stress
and territorial behavior.

## Breeding

Breeding Polypterus endlicherii in captivity is challenging and rarely achieved. They require specific conditions,
including a large, well-established tank with appropriate water parameters. During the breeding season, males and
females exhibit increased activity and may perform courtship displays. The female lays eggs among plants or in hidden
areas, and the male fertilizes them. After spawning, the eggs should be removed to a separate rearing tank to prevent
predation. The eggs hatch in about a week, and the fry can be fed infusoria or newly hatched brine shrimp.
