---
draft: true
title: Blue Peacock
aliases: ["Blue Peacock Cichlid"]
excerpt:
  Aulonocara nyassae, also known as the Blue Peacock, is one of the most popular and vividly colored cichlids from Lake
  Malawi, known for its stunning appearance.
---

## Overview

The Blue Peacock (Aulonocara nyassae) is a strikingly vibrant cichlid species native to Lake Malawi in Africa. Known for
their vivid blue coloration and iridescent scales, Blue Peacocks are popular among aquarium enthusiasts for their beauty
and relatively peaceful temperament. These fish are typically found in rocky environments and sandy bottoms in their
natural habitat.

Males are more brightly colored than females, often displaying intense blue hues and more prominent finnage, while
females are generally duller in color, usually a gray or brownish tone.

## Tank Requirements

Blue Peacocks thrive in aquariums that mimic their natural habitat. A tank size of at least 55 gallons is recommended to
provide adequate space for swimming. The ideal water temperature ranges from 76°F to 82°F (24°C to 28°C), with a pH
level between 7.8 and 8.6. It's important to maintain good water quality with efficient filtration and regular water
changes. Use a sandy substrate and provide plenty of hiding spots with rocks and caves to replicate their natural
environment. Additionally, ensure good water circulation and oxygenation, as these fish prefer well-oxygenated water.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, Blue Peacocks primarily feed on small invertebrates found in the substrate. In an aquarium, they should be
fed a varied diet that includes high-quality cichlid pellets, flakes, and occasional live or frozen foods such as brine
shrimp or bloodworms. It's best to feed them small amounts multiple times a day to mimic their natural feeding habits
and ensure they receive adequate nutrition.

## Care and Maintenance

To keep Blue Peacocks healthy, maintain a regular schedule of water changes, typically 20-30% every two weeks. Clean the
tank and check water parameters regularly to ensure a stable environment. Monitor the fish for any signs of illness,
such as changes in behavior or appearance, and address any issues promptly. Providing a balanced diet and a stress-free
environment will help prevent common health problems.

## Compatibility

Blue Peacocks are generally peaceful but can be territorial, especially during breeding. They are best kept with other
mild-mannered African cichlids of similar size. Avoid housing them with overly aggressive or very small fish. Suitable
tank mates include other Aulonocara species and some Haplochromis species. Provide plenty of hiding spaces to reduce
territorial disputes.

## Compatibility

Blue Peacocks are generally peaceful but can exhibit territorial behavior, especially during breeding. They are best
kept with other mild-mannered African cichlids of similar size to minimize aggression. Suitable tank mates include other
Aulonocara species, such as the Yellow Peacock, and some Haplochromis species.

It is important to avoid housing them with overly aggressive or very small fish, as this can lead to stress and
potential conflicts. Providing plenty of hiding spaces and territories within the tank will help reduce territorial
disputes and create a more harmonious environment for all tank inhabitants.

## Breeding

Breeding Blue Peacocks can be a rewarding but challenging process. To encourage successful breeding, start with a
spacious tank of at least 55 gallons, which provides ample space for the fish and allows them to establish territories.
Equip the tank with plenty of hiding spots and territories using rocks and caves to replicate their natural environment.
Ensure the tank is well-filtered, and maintain stable water conditions to support the health of both adults and fry.

The water temperature should be kept between 76°F and 82°F (24°C to 28°C), with a pH level between 7.8 and 8.6. Regular
water changes, around 20-30% weekly, are crucial to maintaining good water quality and ensuring the well-being of the
fish.

Blue Peacocks typically reach sexual maturity between 12 to 18 months of age. Males will begin to display their vibrant
colors and perform elaborate courtship dances to attract females. Once a female is impressed, she will lay eggs in a
prepared breeding site, usually a small crevice or flat surface.

After spawning, the female will mouthbrood the fertilized eggs, holding them in her mouth for about three weeks. During
this time, she will protect the eggs and the emerging fry from potential threats. It's essential to provide a
stress-free environment and avoid disturbing the female.

As the fry become free-swimming, they should be fed finely crushed flakes or baby brine shrimp. Maintaining good water
quality and providing ample food are crucial for their growth and development. After the fry are released, it may be
necessary to separate them from the adults to prevent predation. Providing a separate rearing tank with similar water
conditions will help the young fish grow and mature successfully.

Creating a suitable environment and maintaining optimal water conditions will significantly increase the chances of
successful breeding and healthy fry development.
