---
draft: true
title: Bala Shark
aliases: [Silver Shark, Tricolor Shark]
excerpt:
  Balantiocheilos melanopterus, commonly known as the Bala Shark, is a large and active fish with a striking silver body
  and black-edged fins, suitable for spacious community tanks.
---

## Overview

Balantiocheilos melanopterus, commonly referred to as the Bala Shark, is a popular and striking fish known for its sleek
silver body and distinct black-edged fins. Despite its common name, the Bala Shark is not a true shark but belongs to
the Cyprinidae family, making it more closely related to barbs and minnows. Originating from the rivers and lakes of
Southeast Asia, this species is highly active and can grow up to 40 cm in length. Bala Sharks are peaceful and are often
kept in large community aquariums. However, their size and active nature mean they require a spacious tank with plenty
of swimming room.

## Tank Requirements

Given their size and activity level, Bala Sharks need a large aquarium of at least 500 liters. The tank should have a
temperature range of 22-28Â°C, with a pH between 6.5-7.5 and a water hardness of 5-15 dGH. Bala Sharks are strong
swimmers, so it's important to provide them with a long tank rather than a tall one, allowing them ample space to swim.
The tank should be well-filtered, and regular water changes are necessary to maintain water quality. While they do not
require heavily planted tanks, providing some hiding spots with rocks, driftwood, or robust plants is beneficial.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, Bala Sharks are omnivores, feeding on insects, crustaceans, and plant matter. In captivity, they will
readily accept a variety of foods, including high-quality flakes or pellets, along with live or frozen foods such as
bloodworms, brine shrimp, and daphnia. They will also appreciate vegetable matter, so offering blanched spinach,
lettuce, or peas can be a good addition to their diet. It's important to feed them a balanced diet to ensure their
health and vibrant appearance.

## Care and Maintenance

Bala Sharks are relatively hardy fish but require careful attention to their environment due to their size and
sensitivity to water conditions. Weekly water changes of around 25-30% are recommended, along with regular monitoring of
water parameters. Bala Sharks are prone to stress if housed in an environment that is too small or if the water quality
is poor. It's important to provide a stable and spacious tank to reduce stress and prevent potential health issues.
Additionally, ensure that the tank is well-covered, as Bala Sharks are known to jump.

## Compatibility

Bala Sharks are generally peaceful and can be kept with a variety of other species. They do best in a community tank
with other large, non-aggressive fish such as large tetras, cichlids, and other large barbs. They should be kept in
groups of at least 3-5 individuals, as they are naturally schooling fish. Keeping them in groups helps reduce their
stress levels and allows them to exhibit natural behaviors. However, avoid housing them with much smaller species, as
they might inadvertently be seen as food.

## Breeding

Breeding Bala Sharks in captivity is extremely challenging and rarely accomplished in home aquariums due to their size
and the specific conditions required. In the wild, they breed in large rivers during the rainy season. To attempt
breeding, a very large, specialized tank would be needed, with carefully controlled water parameters and temperature.
They are egg scatterers, and after spawning, the parents should be removed to prevent them from eating the eggs. The
eggs typically hatch within 24-48 hours, and the fry can be fed with infusoria or specially prepared fry food until they
are large enough to accept standard foods.
