---
draft: true
title: Colombian Tetra
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Hyphessobrycon columbianus, or Colombian Tetra, is a vibrant, peaceful fish with striking blue and red coloration,
  making it a popular choice for community aquariums.
---

## Overview

Hyphessobrycon columbianus, commonly known as the Colombian Tetra, is a colorful freshwater fish native to the rivers of
Colombia. Known for its vibrant blue body and red fins, this species adds a striking visual appeal to any aquarium.
Growing to a size of about 6-7 cm, Colombian Tetras are active and peaceful, making them ideal for community tanks.
These fish are schooling species, so they should be kept in groups of six or more to ensure they display their natural
behavior and coloration.

## Tank Requirements

Colombian Tetras thrive in well-maintained aquariums with a minimum volume of 80 liters. The water temperature should be
maintained between 23-27°C, with a pH range of 6.0-7.5 and water hardness (GH) between 5-15 dGH. These tetras prefer a
planted tank with plenty of swimming space and some shaded areas created by floating plants. A dark substrate and
subdued lighting can help enhance their vibrant colors.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, Hyphessobrycon columbianus are omnivores, feeding on a mix of small invertebrates, plant matter, and
detritus. In an aquarium, they should be provided with a varied diet that includes high-quality flake food,
micro-pellets, and live or frozen foods like bloodworms, daphnia, and brine shrimp. Regular feeding 2-3 times a day in
small amounts is recommended to maintain their health and vibrant colors.

## Care and Maintenance

Regular care for Colombian Tetras includes weekly water changes of 25-30% to keep the water clean and the environment
stable. It’s important to monitor water parameters and ensure the filtration system is working efficiently. Colombian
Tetras are generally hardy, but like all fish, they can be susceptible to common freshwater diseases. Maintaining good
water quality and observing their behavior for any signs of stress or illness is key to keeping them healthy.

## Compatibility

Colombian Tetras are peaceful fish that get along well with other small, non-aggressive species. They make excellent
tank mates for other tetras, rasboras, Corydoras, and small catfish. It’s best to keep them in groups of six or more to
prevent stress and encourage natural schooling behavior. Avoid keeping them with larger, aggressive species that might
view them as prey.

## Breeding

Breeding Colombian Tetras in captivity can be challenging but is possible with the right conditions. A separate breeding
tank with soft, slightly acidic water (pH 6.0-6.5) and a temperature of 26-28°C is ideal. Fine-leaved plants or a
spawning mop should be provided as a surface for the eggs. After spawning, it’s important to remove the adults to
prevent them from eating the eggs. The eggs typically hatch within 24-36 hours, and the fry can be fed infusoria or
commercially prepared fry food until they are large enough to consume finely crushed flake food.
