---
draft: true
title: Green Neon Tetra
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Paracheirodon simulans, or Green Neon Tetra, is a small and vibrant freshwater fish known for its iridescent
  blue-green color and peaceful nature, making it a popular choice for nano tanks.
---

## Overview

**Paracheirodon simulans**, commonly known as the Green Neon Tetra, is a small, vibrant fish native to the blackwater
rivers of the Amazon Basin in South America. This species is closely related to the more well-known Neon and Cardinal
tetras, but it has a striking blue-green coloration that runs along its body, making it a beautiful addition to any
aquarium.

Green Neon Tetras are slightly smaller than their relatives, growing to around 2.5 to 3 cm in length. They are peaceful
schooling fish and thrive in groups of at least 6-10 individuals. Due to their small size and sensitive nature, they are
best suited for well-maintained nano tanks or aquariums designed to replicate their natural soft, acidic water
conditions.

## Tank Requirements

A tank of at least 40 liters is recommended for a small group of **Paracheirodon simulans**. They prefer water
temperatures between 23-28°C, with soft, slightly acidic water. The pH should be kept between 5.0 and 6.5, and the
general hardness (GH) should remain low, between 1-8 dGH.

To replicate their natural environment, the tank should have plenty of plants, driftwood, and dim lighting. The addition
of leaf litter or botanicals can help create the blackwater effect these tetras are accustomed to in the wild.

## Feeding and Diet

**Paracheirodon simulans** are omnivores and will thrive on a varied diet. In captivity, they should be fed a mixture of
high-quality flakes or micro-pellets, supplemented with live or frozen foods like brine shrimp, daphnia, and bloodworms.

Offering a variety of small live foods will enhance their natural colors and keep them healthy and active.

## Care and Maintenance

**Paracheirodon simulans** are relatively easy to care for as long as their water parameters are stable. They require
regular water changes to maintain their soft, acidic conditions. Due to their sensitivity, it’s important to avoid
sudden changes in water chemistry or temperature.

These fish are prone to stress if kept in inappropriate conditions or in tanks with aggressive or overly active species,
so they should be housed with similarly peaceful tank mates.

## Compatibility

**Paracheirodon simulans** are peaceful and make excellent community fish. However, due to their small size, they should
be kept with other small, non-aggressive species. Ideal tank mates include other tetras, small rasboras, dwarf
corydoras, and small peaceful species like the Honey Gourami.

Avoid larger or aggressive fish that may see them as prey or outcompete them for food.

## Breeding

Breeding **Paracheirodon simulans** can be quite challenging. They require very soft, acidic water and dim lighting to
encourage spawning. The parents do not exhibit parental care, and they may eat the eggs after spawning, so it’s
important to remove the adults once the eggs are laid.

The eggs hatch within 24-36 hours, and the fry become free-swimming after 3-4 days. They should be fed with infusoria or
finely powdered food until they are large enough to accept baby brine shrimp.
