---
draft: true
title: Indian Swamp Barb
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Oreichthys cosuatis, also known as the Indian Swamp Barb, is a small, peaceful fish from the Cyprinidae family, ideal
  for community aquariums with other small species.
---

## Overview

**Oreichthys cosuatis**, commonly known as the Indian Swamp Barb, is a small and peaceful fish species belonging to the
Cyprinidae family. Native to slow-moving waters in India and Bangladesh, it is a vibrant addition to community
aquariums. This species thrives in groups and shows a stunning display when kept in well-planted tanks with sufficient
swimming space.

## Tank Requirements

Indian Swamp Barbs do well in aquariums of at least 50 liters (around 13 gallons). The water temperature should be
maintained between 22-28°C (72-82°F), with a pH level of 6.0-7.5 and a general hardness (GH) of 4-15. The tank should
have soft, slightly acidic water with gentle water flow. Planting the aquarium densely with live plants and providing
shaded areas will make these fish feel secure.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, **Oreichthys cosuatis** feed on small invertebrates, algae, and plant matter. In captivity, they are not
fussy eaters and will accept a variety of food, including high-quality flake or pellet food. It is recommended to
supplement their diet with live or frozen food such as daphnia, bloodworms, or brine shrimp to maintain their health and
coloration. Occasionally offering blanched vegetables like zucchini or spinach is also beneficial.

## Care and Maintenance

The Indian Swamp Barb is an easy fish to care for, making it suitable for beginner aquarists. They are peaceful and best
kept in groups of at least six to ten individuals. Regular water changes of 20-30% per week are important to keep the
water clean and well-oxygenated. As they prefer well-planted tanks, regular maintenance of the plants and substrate is
recommended.

## Compatibility

These barbs are peaceful and get along well with other small, non-aggressive species. They make excellent tank mates for
other community fish such as tetras, rasboras, and peaceful bottom dwellers like Corydoras. Keeping them in a school of
their own species will encourage natural behavior and reduce stress. Avoid keeping them with large or aggressive species
that may view them as prey.

## Breeding

Breeding **Oreichthys cosuatis** in home aquariums is possible, though somewhat challenging. They are egg scatterers and
need a well-planted tank with fine-leaved plants or spawning mops where the eggs can attach. Condition the fish with a
protein-rich diet of live or frozen food to stimulate spawning. Once the eggs are laid, the adults should be removed to
prevent them from eating the eggs. The eggs typically hatch within 24-48 hours, and the fry can be fed with infusoria or
liquid fry food until they are large enough to eat finely crushed flake food.
