---
draft: true
title: Buenos Aires Tetra
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Hyphessobrycon anisitsi, commonly known as the Buenos Aires Tetra, is a popular freshwater fish known for its hardy
  nature and adaptability to various aquarium conditions.
---

## Overview

Hyphessobrycon anisitsi, commonly known as the Buenos Aires Tetra, is a freshwater species originating from South
America, particularly the La Plata River basin in Argentina, Paraguay, and Brazil. These tetras are known for their
silvery body with a hint of blue and a distinctive red tail fin. Reaching an adult size of 4-5 cm, they are robust,
active swimmers, making them a great addition to community aquariums. They have a lifespan of 3-5 years with proper
care.

## Tank Requirements

Buenos Aires Tetras thrive in a well-planted aquarium of at least 60 liters with ample swimming space. They prefer a
water temperature range of 22-28°C, a pH of 6.0-8.0, and a general hardness (GH) of 4-15 dGH. While they enjoy a planted
environment, be cautious as they may nibble on delicate plants. Hardy plants such as Java Fern, Anubias, and Vallisneria
are suitable choices. They are best kept in groups of at least six to encourage natural schooling behavior and reduce
stress.

## Feeding and Diet

Hyphessobrycon anisitsi are omnivorous and have a hearty appetite. In the wild, they feed on insects, worms, small
crustaceans, and plant matter. In captivity, a varied diet of high-quality flake or pellet food, along with live or
frozen foods like brine shrimp, daphnia, and bloodworms, will ensure their health and vibrant colors. Feeding them 2-3
times daily in small quantities prevents overfeeding and maintains water quality.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for Buenos Aires Tetras involves regular water changes and monitoring water parameters to prevent stress and
disease. A weekly water change of 20-30% is recommended to maintain optimal water quality. They prefer moderate water
flow in their tanks, which mimics their natural habitat. These tetras are generally hardy and adaptable, making them
suitable for beginner aquarists. Providing them with a stable environment and a balanced diet will help prevent common
diseases.

## Compatibility

Buenos Aires Tetras are generally peaceful but can be somewhat boisterous, so it's important to choose tank mates
carefully. They are suitable for community tanks with other active species such as danios, barbs, and larger tetras.
Avoid keeping them with slow-moving or long-finned fish like bettas or angelfish, as they may nip fins. A larger group
of Buenos Aires Tetras will help to diffuse any potential aggression and encourage natural schooling behavior.

## Breeding

Breeding Buenos Aires Tetras can be accomplished in a separate breeding tank with soft, slightly acidic water and a
temperature around 26-28°C. Provide fine-leaved plants or a spawning mop for egg laying. Once the eggs are laid, parents
should be removed to prevent them from eating the eggs. The eggs usually hatch within 24-36 hours, and the fry can be
fed infusoria or liquid fry food until they are large enough to eat newly hatched brine shrimp or finely crushed flakes.
