---
draft: true
title: Tinfoil Barb
aliases: [Schwanenfeld's Barb, Goldfoil Barb]
excerpt:
  Barbonymus schwanenfeldii, also known as the Tinfoil Barb, is a large, active, and schooling fish that requires a
  spacious tank and is suitable for experienced aquarists.
---

## Overview

Barbonymus schwanenfeldii, commonly known as the Tinfoil Barb, is a large and robust species native to the freshwater
rivers and lakes of Southeast Asia, particularly in countries like Thailand, Malaysia, and Indonesia. This species is
known for its shimmering, metallic scales that give it a "tinfoil" appearance. Growing up to 35 cm in length, the
Tinfoil Barb is a highly active schooling fish that requires a large aquarium to thrive. It is a popular choice among
aquarists with the space and resources to care for such a sizable fish. Tinfoil Barbs are generally peaceful, though
their size and activity level make them better suited to a tank with other large, robust species.

## Tank Requirements

Given their potential size, Tinfoil Barbs require a spacious tank of at least 400 liters, with plenty of swimming space.
The ideal water temperature ranges from 22-28Â°C, with a pH level of 6.5-7.5 and water hardness between 5-15 dGH. A tank
with a strong filtration system is essential due to their size and the amount of waste they produce. The substrate can
be sand or fine gravel, and the tank should include robust plants, large rocks, and driftwood, although care should be
taken as they may uproot delicate plants. Good water flow is also beneficial, as it mimics their natural riverine
habitat.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, Barbonymus schwanenfeldii is an omnivore, feeding on plant matter, small invertebrates, and detritus. In
the aquarium, they should be provided with a varied diet that includes high-quality flake or pellet food, along with
live or frozen foods like bloodworms, brine shrimp, and tubifex. Additionally, they will appreciate blanched vegetables
such as spinach, zucchini, or peas. Due to their size, they have a substantial appetite, so it's important to feed them
appropriately, ensuring they receive enough food without overfeeding.

## Care and Maintenance

Tinfoil Barbs are relatively hardy, but their large size means they require diligent care to maintain good water
quality. Weekly water changes of 25-30% are recommended, along with regular monitoring of water parameters. Given their
potential to grow large, it's essential to provide them with ample space and a strong filtration system to handle their
bioload. Regular tank maintenance, including cleaning the substrate and ensuring the filter is functioning efficiently,
is crucial. Additionally, watch for signs of stress or illness, such as erratic swimming or changes in appetite.

## Compatibility

Tinfoil Barbs are generally peaceful but should be kept with other large, similarly robust species. They do well in a
community tank with fish like large cichlids, bala sharks, or other large barbs. However, they may view much smaller
fish as potential food, so it's best to avoid housing them with small or delicate species. Due to their schooling
nature, it's recommended to keep them in groups of at least 5-6 individuals, which helps reduce stress and allows them
to display their natural behaviors.

## Breeding

Breeding Tinfoil Barbs in captivity is challenging due to their size and the specific conditions required. They are egg
scatterers, and in the wild, they typically breed in large groups during the rainy season. To attempt breeding, a
separate, large breeding tank is needed, with slightly warmer water temperatures and a substrate where the eggs can
fall. The female will scatter her eggs, which the male will fertilize. After spawning, the parents should be removed to
prevent them from eating the eggs. The eggs will hatch in 24-48 hours, and the fry can be fed with infusoria or
specially prepared fry food until they are large enough to eat finely crushed flakes.
