---
draft: true
title: Black Phantom Tetra
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Hyphessobrycon megalopterus, commonly known as the Black Phantom Tetra, is a peaceful and visually striking freshwater
  fish, popular among aquarists for its distinct coloration and social behavior.
---

## Overview

**Hyphessobrycon megalopterus**, commonly known as the Black Phantom Tetra, is a small and peaceful freshwater fish that
originates from the river basins of Bolivia and Brazil. It is well-known for its unique appearance, with males
displaying a dark, almost black dorsal fin and a smoky-gray body, while females are paler with red accents. This species
grows to about 4-5 cm (1.5-2 inches) in length and is popular among aquarists for its social nature and compatibility
with other peaceful community fish.

## Tank Requirements

Black Phantom Tetras thrive in an aquarium that mimics their natural environment with plenty of plants, driftwood, and
open swimming areas. A tank of at least 70 liters (20 gallons) is recommended to house a small school of these tetras,
as they are a shoaling species that feel most secure in groups of six or more. The water temperature should be kept
between 22-28째C (72-82째F), with a pH of 6.0 to 7.5 and a general hardness (GH) of 4-18. A dark substrate and subdued
lighting will enhance their colors and reduce stress.

## Feeding and Diet

Hyphessobrycon megalopterus is an omnivorous species that will accept a wide variety of foods in captivity. A diet
consisting of high-quality flake food, small pellets, and frozen or live foods such as daphnia, bloodworms, and brine
shrimp will help to keep them healthy and enhance their coloration. Feeding them a varied diet will also encourage
natural foraging behavior and ensure they receive all the necessary nutrients.

## Care and Maintenance

The Black Phantom Tetra is relatively easy to care for and is a good choice for beginner aquarists. Regular water
changes and maintaining stable water parameters are essential to prevent stress and disease. This species is generally
hardy, but it can be susceptible to common freshwater fish diseases if water quality is poor. As a peaceful fish, it
should be kept with other non-aggressive species of similar size to prevent fin nipping or stress.

## Compatibility

Black Phantom Tetras are peaceful and do well in a community tank with other small, non-aggressive fish such as other
tetras, rasboras, and small catfish. They are known for their playful behavior and social interactions within their
group, often engaging in mock battles and displays, especially among males. Keeping them in a school not only promotes
natural behavior but also adds a dynamic visual element to the aquarium.

## Breeding

Breeding Hyphessobrycon megalopterus in captivity is relatively straightforward, provided that the water conditions are
optimal and the fish are well-conditioned. A separate breeding tank with soft, slightly acidic water (pH 6.0-6.5) and a
temperature of around 26째C (79째F) is recommended. The tank should be densely planted or include a spawning mop to
protect the eggs. Males will display to females and perform courtship dances, leading to the scattering of eggs. After
spawning, the parents should be removed to prevent them from eating the eggs. The eggs will hatch in about 24-36 hours,
and the fry can be fed infusoria or liquid fry food until they are large enough to accept baby brine shrimp or finely
crushed flakes.
