---
draft: true
title: Red-Spot Tetra
aliases: [Erythrostigma Tetra]
excerpt:
  Hyphessobrycon erythrostigma, commonly known as the Red-Spot Tetra, is a vibrant freshwater fish with distinctive red
  spots.
---

## Overview

**Hyphessobrycon erythrostigma**, commonly known as the **Red-Spot Tetra**, is a striking freshwater fish native to the
rivers of South America. This species is admired for its vivid coloration, featuring prominent red spots on a silver
body. Growing up to 4-5 cm in length, the Red-Spot Tetra is a lively and hardy fish, making it a popular choice for
community tanks.

## Tank Requirements

**Hyphessobrycon erythrostigma** requires a well-maintained aquarium with a minimum volume of 80 liters. The ideal water
temperature ranges from 22-28Â°C, with a pH of 6.0 to 7.5 and water hardness (GH) between 6-12. The tank should be
equipped with a good filter and regular water changes. Providing a tank with soft, slightly acidic water, along with
plenty of plants and hiding spots, will help mimic its natural habitat.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, **Red-Spot Tetras** consume a variety of small invertebrates and plant matter. In captivity, they should be
fed a balanced diet including high-quality flake foods, live or frozen foods such as brine shrimp, and daphnia. Offering
a varied diet will ensure their vibrant coloration and overall health. Feed them small amounts 1-2 times a day.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for **Hyphessobrycon erythrostigma** involves maintaining clean and stable water conditions. Regular water
changes of 20-30% weekly are recommended to prevent the buildup of waste. Monitor water parameters and adjust as needed
to keep them within the ideal range. While the Red-Spot Tetra is relatively hardy, they should still be watched for any
signs of illness or stress.

## Compatibility

**Hyphessobrycon erythrostigma** is generally peaceful and can be kept with other small, non-aggressive fish. Suitable
tank mates include other tetras, small rasboras, and peaceful bottom-dwellers. Avoid housing them with larger or
aggressive species that might harass or intimidate them. Providing a well-balanced community tank will ensure their
well-being.

## Breeding

Breeding **Hyphessobrycon erythrostigma** in captivity can be challenging but rewarding. They are egg-scatterers and
require a separate breeding tank with soft, slightly acidic water. To stimulate breeding, maintain stable water
conditions and provide a varied diet. After spawning, remove the adults to prevent them from eating the eggs. The eggs
will hatch in a few days, and the fry should be fed with infusoria or finely crushed food until they are large enough to
eat regular food.
