---
draft
title: Black Skirt Tetra
aliases: [Blackline Penguin Tetra, Hockey Stick Tetra]
excerpt: Thayeria boehlkei, commonly known as the Black Skirt Tetra or Hockey Stick Tetra, is a peaceful schooling fish known for its distinctive black stripe and ease of care.
---

## Overview

Thayeria boehlkei, commonly known as the Black Skirt Tetra, Blackline Penguin Tetra, or Hockey Stick Tetra, is a
freshwater species native to the Amazon Basin in South America. These small, schooling fish are characterized by their
distinctive black stripe running from their midsection to their caudal fin, resembling a hockey stick or the uniform of
a penguin. Their active nature and peaceful temperament make them an excellent choice for community aquariums. With a
lifespan of 5-6 years, these tetras are relatively easy to care for, making them suitable for both novice and
experienced aquarists.

## Tank Requirements

Black Skirt Tetras thrive in a well-planted aquarium with a minimum volume of 70 liters. They prefer water temperatures
between 22-28°C, a pH range of 6.0-7.5, and general hardness (GH) of 5-15 dGH. The tank should include plenty of
swimming space and areas with subdued lighting to mimic their natural habitat. These tetras are schooling fish, so it is
recommended to keep them in groups of at least six to promote natural behavior and reduce stress. A gentle water
current, created by a good filtration system, will also benefit them.

## Feeding and Diet

Thayeria boehlkei are omnivorous and will accept a wide variety of foods. In the wild, they primarily feed on small
invertebrates and plant matter. In the aquarium, they can be fed high-quality flake or pellet food, supplemented with
live or frozen foods such as daphnia, brine shrimp, and bloodworms. Feeding them 2-3 times a day in small amounts will
keep them healthy and active. It's important to ensure a balanced diet to maintain their vibrant colors and overall
well-being.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for Black Skirt Tetras involves maintaining stable water conditions and a clean environment. Regular water
changes of 20-30% weekly are necessary to keep the water quality high, as these tetras can be sensitive to poor water
conditions. The tank should have a secure lid, as these fish are known to jump. Monitoring water parameters regularly
will help prevent stress and disease. A well-maintained aquarium with a balanced diet will ensure a healthy and active
school of Black Skirt Tetras.

## Compatibility

Thayeria boehlkei are peaceful and do well in community tanks with other non-aggressive species of similar size.
Suitable tank mates include other small tetras, rasboras, danios, and Corydoras catfish. Avoid housing them with larger,
aggressive fish that may see them as prey. Keeping them in a school of at least six individuals will help reduce stress
and encourage natural behaviors. They are not aggressive towards other species, making them ideal for peaceful community
setups.

## Breeding

Breeding Black Skirt Tetras in captivity is possible, but it requires some preparation. To induce spawning, provide a
separate breeding tank with slightly acidic water (pH around 6.5) and a temperature of 25-27°C. The tank should be
densely planted with fine-leaved plants or equipped with a spawning mop to provide a safe place for the eggs. After
spawning, the adults should be removed to prevent them from eating the eggs. The eggs will hatch in about 24-36 hours,
and the fry can be fed infusoria or commercially available liquid fry food until they are large enough to accept baby
brine shrimp or crushed flakes.
