---
draft: true
title: Red Fin Borleyi
aliases: [Kadango]
excerpt: Copadichromis borleyi is a beautiful Malawi cichlid known for its vibrant colors and active swimming behavior.
---

## Overview

**Copadichromis borleyi**, also known as the Red Fin Borleyi or Kadango, is a colorful and relatively peaceful species
of cichlid native to Lake Malawi. The males display vibrant red and blue coloration, while the females tend to be more
subdued in color. This species can grow to about 12-15 cm and is often admired for its active swimming in the middle and
upper regions of the aquarium.

With a lifespan of 5-10 years, **Copadichromis borleyi** requires moderate care, making it a suitable choice for
aquarists with some experience. They are best kept in a large, well-filtered aquarium designed to mimic their natural
habitat.

## Tank Requirements

This species thrives in an aquarium of at least 300 liters, with plenty of open swimming space and some rocky areas for
shelter. Water parameters should be maintained within a temperature range of 24-28Â°C, a pH of 7.8-8.6, and a hardness
(GH) of 10-25.

Copadichromis borleyi is an open-water swimmer, so it's important to have a tank that provides plenty of horizontal
space. Strong filtration is also recommended to ensure clean and stable water conditions.

## Feeding and Diet

In their natural habitat, **Copadichromis borleyi** feed on plankton and small invertebrates. In captivity, they should
be offered a balanced diet of high-quality flakes or pellets, supplemented with occasional frozen or live foods such as
brine shrimp, daphnia, or bloodworms. A varied diet will enhance their coloration and overall health.

## Care and Maintenance

Regular water changes and a high level of filtration are essential for the health of **Copadichromis borleyi**. As they
are sensitive to poor water quality, it is important to maintain stable water parameters. They generally exhibit
peaceful behavior but can become more territorial during breeding.

They are best kept in a species-specific or Malawi biotope tank, with other similar-sized Malawi cichlids. Avoid keeping
them with overly aggressive species, as this can lead to stress and injury.

## Compatibility

**Copadichromis borleyi** is generally peaceful but can display some territoriality, particularly during the breeding
season. They can be kept with other peaceful to semi-aggressive Malawi cichlids like Aulonocara or Protomelas species.
However, they should not be housed with smaller or overly aggressive fish.

Provide plenty of hiding places in the form of rocks and caves to minimize aggression and territorial disputes.

## Breeding

Breeding **Copadichromis borleyi** is possible in the home aquarium. They are mouthbrooders, with the female carrying
the eggs and fry in her mouth for about 3-4 weeks. A male will establish a breeding territory, and once a pair is
formed, the female will hold the fertilized eggs in her mouth until the fry are ready to be released.

After the fry are released, they can be fed baby brine shrimp or finely crushed flake food. Be sure to monitor the tank
carefully to ensure the fry are not harassed by other tank inhabitants.
