---
draft: true
title: Red Jewel Cichlid
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Hemichromis lifalili, also known as the Red Jewel Cichlid, is a vibrant and striking cichlid species known for its
  intense red coloration and relatively peaceful behavior among jewel cichlids.
---

## Overview

Hemichromis lifalili, commonly known as the Red Jewel Cichlid, is a beautiful and relatively peaceful species of cichlid
native to the rivers and lakes of Central Africa. It is prized for its intense red coloration, which is especially
prominent during breeding. Although jewel cichlids are generally known for their aggression, Hemichromis lifalili is
considered to be one of the more peaceful species, making it a suitable choice for community tanks with other robust
species.

## Tank Requirements

The Red Jewel Cichlid requires a tank of at least 100 liters to accommodate its active swimming and territorial nature.
The water temperature should be maintained between 23-28°C, with a pH of 6.0-7.5 and a water hardness of 8-15 dGH. The
tank should be decorated with plenty of hiding spots such as rocks, caves, and plants to provide shelter and reduce
territorial aggression. It’s important to ensure that the tank has a secure lid, as these cichlids can be jumpers.
Regular water changes and good filtration are necessary to maintain water quality.

## Feeding and Diet

Hemichromis lifalili is an omnivorous species that will accept a wide range of foods in the aquarium. A balanced diet
should include high-quality pellets or flakes designed for cichlids, supplemented with live or frozen foods such as
brine shrimp, bloodworms, and daphnia. Vegetable matter such as blanched spinach or spirulina-based foods can also be
offered. Providing a varied diet will help maintain their vibrant coloration and overall health.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for Red Jewel Cichlids involves maintaining stable water conditions and providing an environment that allows for
natural behaviors. Regular weekly water changes of 20-25% are recommended to keep nitrate levels low and maintain water
clarity. It’s also important to monitor water parameters regularly to ensure they remain within the suitable range for
the species. While they are relatively hardy, Hemichromis lifalili can be sensitive to poor water quality, which may
lead to stress and health issues.

## Compatibility

Hemichromis lifalili is generally less aggressive than other jewel cichlids, but it can still be territorial, especially
during breeding. They are best kept with other robust and similarly sized fish that can handle their occasional
aggression. Suitable tank mates include other African cichlids, larger tetras, or catfish. Avoid keeping them with very
small or overly docile fish, as they may be harassed or eaten. When breeding, it’s advisable to keep them in a
species-specific tank to prevent aggression towards other tank mates.

## Breeding

Breeding Hemichromis lifalili is relatively easy and can be a rewarding experience for aquarists. They are substrate
spawners, and the breeding pair will clean a flat surface such as a rock or piece of slate on which to lay their eggs.
To encourage breeding, maintain a temperature around 26-28°C and provide plenty of flat surfaces in the tank. The female
can lay up to 500 eggs, which are then fertilized by the male. Both parents will guard the eggs and fry aggressively,
and their coloration will become even more intense during this period. The fry become free-swimming after about a week
and can be fed on newly hatched brine shrimp or finely crushed flake food.
