---
draft: true
title: White-spotted Cichlid
aliases: []
excerpt:
  "Satanoperca leucosticta, or White-spotted Cichlid, is a peaceful and attractive species from South America, known for
  its beautiful pattern and peaceful nature."
---

## Overview

Satanoperca leucosticta, commonly known as the White-spotted Cichlid, is a peaceful and attractive species native to the
waters of South America, primarily found in the Rio Orinoco and Rio Negro basins. This species is characterized by its
striking coloration and unique pattern of white spots on its body, which makes it a popular choice among aquarium
enthusiasts. Satanoperca leucosticta is an omnivorous species and is known for being relatively calm and non-aggressive,
making it suitable for community tanks with other peaceful species.

## Tank Requirements

The White-spotted Cichlid requires a spacious tank, with a minimum size of 300 liters. They prefer slightly acidic to
neutral water with a pH range of 6.5-7.5 and a temperature range of 24-28°C. The general hardness (GH) should be between
8 and 15. Provide plenty of hiding spots, plants, and soft substrates for them to explore. This species is not
particularly demanding when it comes to tank decoration, but it does enjoy having space to swim freely and the ability
to establish territories.

## Feeding and Diet

Satanoperca leucosticta is an omnivorous species, meaning it will accept a variety of foods. In the wild, it feeds on
small invertebrates, plants, and detritus. In the aquarium, you can offer a balanced diet consisting of high-quality
pellets, live or frozen foods such as brine shrimp and bloodworms, and occasional vegetable matter such as blanched
spinach or zucchini. Feed them twice a day, ensuring a varied diet to maintain their health and vibrant coloration.

## Care and Maintenance

The care level for Satanoperca leucosticta is moderate, making it suitable for intermediate hobbyists. Regular water
changes (around 25% weekly) are important to maintain water quality. Monitor water parameters closely, as this species
is sensitive to sudden fluctuations in water conditions. Regular cleaning of the tank and removing uneaten food is
essential to keep the water clean and healthy. Although they are relatively peaceful, they may exhibit territorial
behavior during breeding, so space should be provided accordingly.

## Compatibility

Satanoperca leucosticta is known for its peaceful nature, making it an ideal choice for community aquariums. It can be
kept with other peaceful species, including smaller cichlids, tetras, and catfish. Avoid keeping them with overly
aggressive or very small fish, as they may become stressed or intimidated. However, it's important to ensure that the
tank has enough space and hiding spots to allow all species to coexist harmoniously.

## Breeding

Breeding Satanoperca leucosticta in captivity can be challenging, but it is possible with the right conditions. The
species is monogamous, and a bonded pair will typically spawn in a well-protected area, such as a cave or on a flat
rock. The female will lay her eggs, which the male will fertilize. After hatching, the fry will be cared for by the
parents until they are old enough to swim freely. The parents may become protective and territorial during the breeding
process, so it’s important to provide enough space and hiding spots to avoid aggression from other tankmates.
