---
draft: true
title: Chocolate Gourami
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Sphaerichthys osphromenoides, commonly known as the Chocolate Gourami, is a small, peaceful fish renowned for its
  unique coloration and interesting breeding behavior.
---

## Overview

**Sphaerichthys osphromenoides**, commonly known as the Chocolate Gourami, is a small, delicate fish belonging to the
family Osphronemidae. Native to the slow-moving, acidic waters of Southeast Asia, particularly in Borneo and Sumatra,
this species is highly prized by aquarists for its striking appearance and peaceful nature. The Chocolate Gourami is
named for its rich, chocolate-brown coloration, accented with pale, vertical bands. Despite its beauty, it is considered
a challenging species to keep due to its specific water requirements and sensitivity to water quality.

## Tank Requirements

Chocolate Gouramis thrive in a well-maintained aquarium with a minimum volume of 60 liters (approximately 16 gallons).
The water should be soft and acidic, with a pH between 4.0-6.0 and general hardness (GH) of 1-5. The ideal temperature
range is 24-28°C (75-82°F). To replicate their natural habitat, the tank should be densely planted with soft-leaved
plants, providing plenty of hiding spots and shaded areas. The addition of tannin-rich elements, such as driftwood or
Indian almond leaves, will help mimic the blackwater conditions these fish prefer and enhance their natural coloration.

## Feeding and Diet

**Sphaerichthys osphromenoides** are omnivores and can be fed a varied diet that includes high-quality micro pellets or
flakes, supplemented with live or frozen foods such as brine shrimp, daphnia, and bloodworms. These fish have small
mouths, so it is essential to offer appropriately sized food. They may be slow to accept prepared foods, so patience is
required when introducing them to new diets. Regular feeding with live or frozen foods will help maintain their health
and vibrant coloration.

## Care and Maintenance

Maintaining pristine water conditions is crucial for the health of Chocolate Gouramis. Regular water changes of 20-30%
weekly are recommended to keep the water clean and stable. These fish are particularly sensitive to poor water quality
and sudden changes in water parameters. A gentle filtration system is ideal, as they prefer calm, slow-moving waters.
It's also important to monitor the water parameters frequently to ensure they remain within the ideal range for this
species. Due to their sensitivity, these fish are best suited for experienced aquarists.

## Compatibility

Chocolate Gouramis are peaceful and do best in a species-only tank or with other small, non-aggressive fish that share
similar water requirements. Ideal tank mates include small rasboras, peaceful tetras, and dwarf Corydoras. They should
not be housed with larger or more aggressive species that may outcompete them for food or cause stress. Keeping them in
groups of 4-6 individuals will promote natural behavior and reduce stress. It's essential to provide plenty of hiding
places to make them feel secure.

## Breeding

Breeding **Sphaerichthys osphromenoides** can be challenging due to their specific breeding behavior. These fish are
mouthbrooders, with the male carrying the eggs in his mouth until they hatch. To encourage breeding, set up a separate
breeding tank with soft, acidic water and plenty of hiding spots. The breeding pair should be conditioned with a diet
rich in live and frozen foods. Once the female lays eggs, the male will collect them in his mouth, where they will
incubate for about 10-14 days. During this period, the male will not eat, so it's important to ensure he is in good
condition before breeding. After the fry are released, they can be fed infusoria or liquid fry food until they are large
enough to accept micro-pellets or powdered fry food.
