---
draft: true
title: Padamya Barb
aliases: [Burma Barb, Pethia Barb]
excerpt:
  The Padamya Barb is a small, peaceful fish with vibrant colors, ideal for community tanks. It is native to Myanmar and
  known for its active daytime behavior.
---

## Overview

The Padamya Barb (Pethia padamya) is a small, colorful fish native to the rivers of Myanmar. This peaceful species is
well-regarded for its vibrant colors and lively daytime activity. Typically reaching a size of 5-7 cm, the Padamya Barb
is an excellent choice for community tanks due to its calm demeanor and compatibility with other small, non-aggressive
fish.

## Tank Requirements

Padamya Barbs thrive in a well-maintained aquarium with a minimum volume of 80 liters. The ideal water temperature
should range between 22-26°C, with a pH level of 6.0 to 7.5 and water hardness (GH) between 5-10. They prefer a tank
setup with plenty of swimming space and gentle filtration. A well-planted aquarium with soft substrate and some hiding
spots will provide a comfortable environment for these active fish. Regular water changes and good water quality are
essential to keep them healthy.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, Padamya Barbs feed on small insects, worms, and plant matter. In captivity, they should be provided with a
varied diet consisting of high-quality flake foods, live or frozen foods such as bloodworms and brine shrimp, and some
vegetable matter. A balanced diet will help maintain their vibrant colors and overall health. Feed them once or twice a
day, and avoid overfeeding to prevent water quality issues.

## Care and Maintenance

Regular care and maintenance are important for the health of Padamya Barbs. Perform weekly water changes of 20-25% to
maintain water quality. Monitor the tank for any signs of stress or disease and address any issues promptly. Ensure the
tank environment mimics their natural habitat with plenty of open swimming space and gentle filtration. Regular
observation will help you keep an eye on their behavior and ensure they are thriving.

## Compatibility

Padamya Barbs are peaceful and social fish that get along well with other small, non-aggressive species. They do well in
community tanks with similar-sized fish and can be kept with other barbs, tetras, and peaceful bottom dwellers. Avoid
keeping them with larger or more aggressive fish that might intimidate or harm them. Providing a well-structured tank
with ample swimming space will help promote a harmonious environment.

## Breeding

Breeding Padamya Barbs in captivity can be achieved with proper conditions. They are egg scatterers and typically spawn
on fine-leaved plants or spawning mops. To encourage breeding, maintain a slightly higher water temperature around
24-26°C and provide a well-planted tank with plenty of hiding spots. After spawning, the eggs should be monitored
closely. The fry will need to be fed with infusoria or finely crushed food once they are free-swimming.
