---
draft: true
title: Half-banded Loach
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Pangio semicincta, known as the Half-banded Loach, is a small, peaceful loach with distinctive banding, suitable for
  community aquariums.
---

## Overview

Pangio semicincta, commonly known as the Half-banded Loach or Striped Kuhli Loach, is a small, slender freshwater fish
native to Southeast Asia. This species typically grows to a length of 6-8 cm and is known for its distinctive black and
yellow banding along its body. The Half-banded Loach is a peaceful, nocturnal species that spends much of its time
burrowing in the substrate or hiding among plants and decorations. With a lifespan of 5-10 years, it makes a
long-lasting and visually appealing addition to a community aquarium.

## Tank Requirements

The Half-banded Loach thrives in a tank with a minimum volume of 60 liters. The ideal water temperature for this species
is between 24-28°C, with a pH range of 6.0-7.5 and general hardness (GH) between 5-12. A soft, sandy substrate is
essential to allow them to burrow comfortably. The tank should be densely planted with plenty of hiding spots created by
driftwood, rocks, and caves. Dim lighting is preferable to mimic their natural environment and reduce stress. Good water
quality is crucial, so regular water changes and efficient filtration are necessary.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, Pangio semicincta feeds on small invertebrates and organic detritus. In an aquarium, they should be offered
a varied diet of high-quality sinking pellets, algae wafers, and live or frozen foods such as bloodworms, brine shrimp,
and daphnia. Feeding should be done in the evening or at night to align with their nocturnal activity. As bottom
dwellers, it's important to provide food that reaches the substrate where they can easily access it.

## Care and Maintenance

The Half-banded Loach is relatively hardy but requires proper care to thrive. Weekly water changes of 20-25% are
recommended to maintain water quality. Monitor water parameters regularly to ensure they remain within the appropriate
range. Due to their burrowing behavior, it's important to have a soft substrate to prevent damage to their delicate
bodies. Ensure the tank is well-covered, as these loaches are known for their ability to escape through small openings.
Regularly check for signs of disease or stress, and provide a stable, low-stress environment.

## Compatibility

Pangio semicincta is a peaceful species that does well in community tanks with other small, non-aggressive fish. They
should be kept in groups of 5 or more, as they are social and prefer the company of their own kind. Suitable tank mates
include small tetras, rasboras, and other peaceful loaches. Avoid housing them with large or aggressive fish that may
outcompete them for food or stress them. Their nocturnal nature makes them ideal companions for other peaceful,
low-light species.

## Breeding

Breeding Pangio semicincta in captivity is challenging and rarely achieved in home aquariums. They are egg-scatterers,
and breeding usually occurs in well-planted tanks with slightly warmer water (around 26-28°C). Fine-leaved plants or
spawning mops can be provided as a place for females to deposit eggs. After spawning, it is advisable to remove the
adults to prevent them from eating the eggs. The eggs typically hatch within a few days, and the fry can be fed
infusoria or newly hatched brine shrimp.
