---
draft: true
title: Denison Barb
aliases: [Denison Barb, Roseline Shark, Redline Torpedo Barb]
excerpt:
  Sahyadria denisonii, also known as the Denison Barb, is a vibrant and active fish with striking red and black stripes,
  ideal for spacious, well-planted community aquariums.
---

## Overview

Sahyadria denisonii, commonly known as the Denison Barb or Roseline Shark, is a strikingly colorful and active fish that
has gained popularity in the aquarium hobby. Native to the fast-flowing streams and rivers of the Western Ghats in
India, this species is recognized for its vivid red and black stripes running along its body, combined with a silvery
sheen. Denison Barbs are peaceful and do well in large, well-planted community tanks. They are shoaling fish and should
be kept in groups to reduce stress and encourage natural behavior.

## Tank Requirements

Denison Barbs thrive in aquariums that mimic their natural habitat, with a temperature range of 22-28°C, pH between
6.5-7.8, and water hardness of 5-15 dGH. A minimum tank size of 150 liters is recommended for a small group, with plenty
of open swimming space as well as areas of dense vegetation. The tank should be equipped with a good filtration system
to maintain high water quality, as this species is sensitive to poor water conditions. A moderate to strong water flow
is beneficial, as it replicates their natural environment and encourages activity.

## Feeding and Diet

Denison Barbs are omnivores and will accept a wide variety of foods in the aquarium. They thrive on a diet that includes
high-quality flake or pellet food, supplemented with live or frozen foods such as bloodworms, brine shrimp, and daphnia.
Additionally, offering vegetable matter like blanched spinach, zucchini, or spirulina flakes will help to maintain their
vibrant colors and overall health. Regular feeding of a varied diet will keep them active and healthy.

## Care and Maintenance

While Denison Barbs are relatively hardy, they require stable water conditions and regular maintenance to thrive. Weekly
water changes of 20-25% are recommended to keep the water clean and prevent the buildup of toxins. Monitoring water
parameters is crucial, as they are sensitive to changes in water quality. The tank should be covered securely, as these
fish are known to jump, especially when startled. Providing a well-structured environment with both open spaces and
hiding spots will reduce stress and encourage natural behavior.

## Compatibility

Denison Barbs are peaceful and can be housed with a variety of other species in a community aquarium. Ideal tank mates
include other active, non-aggressive fish such as larger tetras, rasboras, and danios. Avoid keeping them with very
small fish, which might be intimidated by their size and activity level, or with overly aggressive species that could
stress them. It's important to keep Denison Barbs in groups of at least 6 individuals, as they are shoaling fish that
prefer the company of their own kind.

## Breeding

Breeding Denison Barbs in captivity is challenging but not impossible. They are egg scatterers, and breeding usually
requires a well-planted tank with slightly acidic water and a temperature of around 26°C. Conditioning the fish with
high-quality live and frozen foods can encourage spawning. Once the eggs are laid, they will fall to the substrate or
plants, and the parents should be removed to prevent them from eating the eggs. The eggs typically hatch within 24-48
hours, and the fry can be fed with infusoria or commercially available fry foods until they are large enough to eat
finely crushed flake food or baby brine shrimp.
