---
draft: true
title: Red Empress
aliases: [Spindle Hap]
excerpt:
  Protomelas taeniolatus, commonly known as the Red Empress, is a stunning and colorful cichlid species native to Lake
  Malawi, appreciated for its vibrant hues and peaceful temperament.
---

## Overview

**Protomelas taeniolatus**, commonly referred to as the Red Empress or Spindle Hap, is a visually striking species of
cichlid from Lake Malawi, Africa. Known for their brilliant colors, the males display a vivid mix of red, blue, and
orange, making them a popular choice among aquarium enthusiasts. Females, however, tend to have a more subdued
coloration, often in shades of brown or grey.

These fish can grow to a length of 15-25 cm and live for around 8-10 years. Protomelas taeniolatus are relatively
peaceful compared to other cichlids, making them suitable for larger community tanks with other Malawi species. Their
vibrant appearance and moderate care requirements make them a great addition for intermediate-level aquarists.

## Tank Requirements

**Protomelas taeniolatus** require a tank of at least 300 liters to thrive. They prefer water temperatures between
24-28°C, with a pH range of 7.5-8.5 and general hardness (GH) of 10-20 dGH. As with other cichlids, water quality is
crucial, so good filtration and regular water changes are essential.

Rocks, caves, and other natural structures are ideal for decorating the tank, as these fish enjoy having hiding spots.
Although they are not aggressive, territorial disputes can arise, especially during breeding periods, so providing
plenty of space and hiding spots helps reduce stress. While plants are not required, hardy species can be added, though
care should be taken as these cichlids may uproot or nibble on them.

## Feeding and Diet

In their natural habitat, **Protomelas taeniolatus** feed on algae and small invertebrates. In an aquarium, they accept
a wide variety of foods, including high-quality cichlid pellets, flakes, and occasional live or frozen foods like brine
shrimp, bloodworms, and krill.

It’s important to offer a balanced diet with both plant-based and protein-rich components to maintain their vibrant
colors and overall health. Feeding them spirulina-based foods is especially beneficial for enhancing their natural hues.

## Care and Maintenance

**Protomelas taeniolatus** are relatively easy to care for, but maintaining good water quality is essential for their
well-being. Regular water changes (20-30% weekly) and proper filtration will help keep the tank conditions stable and
healthy for the fish.

Although they are hardy, sudden fluctuations in water parameters, such as pH or temperature, can lead to stress and
health issues. Keep an eye on the water chemistry and perform regular testing to ensure optimal conditions.

## Compatibility

**Protomelas taeniolatus** are generally peaceful, especially compared to more aggressive cichlids. They can be kept in
a community setup with other Malawi cichlids of similar temperament, such as Aulonocara (Peacock cichlids) and other
haplochromines. However, avoid keeping them with overly aggressive species like mbuna cichlids, as this can lead to
conflicts.

To minimize aggression during breeding or territorial disputes, it’s recommended to have a ratio of one male to several
females. Providing enough space and hiding spots will also help maintain a peaceful environment.

## Breeding

Breeding **Protomelas taeniolatus** in captivity is possible, and they are known as mouthbrooders. During mating, the
female will lay eggs and then carry them in her mouth for several weeks until they hatch. The fry will remain in the
mother’s mouth for protection until they are ready to swim on their own.

To encourage breeding, provide a stable, well-maintained tank environment and offer high-quality food. The breeding tank
should include flat surfaces where the female can lay eggs. Once the fry are released, they can be fed on baby brine
shrimp or crushed flakes.
