---
draft: true
title: Asoka Barb
aliases: [Asoka Barb]
excerpt:
  Systomus asoka, also known as the Asoka Barb, is a vibrant and active species native to Sri Lanka, known for its
  schooling behavior and suitability for larger community aquariums.
---

## Overview

**Systomus asoka**, commonly known as the Asoka Barb, is a vibrant freshwater species from the family Cyprinidae. Native
to the fast-flowing rivers and streams of Sri Lanka, this species is well-known for its bright coloration and lively
nature. Asoka Barbs are a shoaling species that prefer to be kept in groups, making them an excellent choice for larger
community tanks with plenty of swimming space. Due to their active nature, they require a tank that mimics their natural
habitat with strong water flow and an open swimming area.

## Tank Requirements

The Asoka Barb thrives in a spacious tank with a minimum capacity of 200 liters (around 53 gallons). The tank should
have a strong water flow, similar to the streams in which they are found in the wild. The water temperature should be
maintained between 22-26°C (72-79°F) with a pH level of 6.0-7.5 and a general hardness (GH) of 5-15. Use a powerful
filter and ensure there is plenty of open swimming space, along with some plants and rocks for cover. They prefer a
well-oxygenated environment, so adding an air stone or ensuring sufficient surface agitation is recommended.

## Feeding and Diet

Asoka Barbs are omnivores and thrive on a varied diet. In the wild, they feed on small insects, algae, and plant matter.
In captivity, they should be fed a balanced diet of high-quality flake or pellet foods, supplemented with live or frozen
foods like brine shrimp, bloodworms, and daphnia. It's important to provide them with occasional plant-based foods to
mimic their natural diet. Regular feedings, two to three times a day, will help maintain their health and vibrant
coloration.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for **Systomus asoka** requires regular maintenance to keep the tank environment clean and stable. Regular water
changes of around 30% every week are recommended to ensure high water quality. Since they are active swimmers, they
benefit from a large tank with a good filtration system that can handle their bioload. Keeping the water well-oxygenated
is crucial, and adding plants will help maintain good water quality and provide cover.

## Compatibility

Asoka Barbs are generally peaceful and can be housed in a community tank with other medium to large-sized,
non-aggressive species. Ideal tank mates include other barbs, loaches, and peaceful cichlids. It's important to keep
them in a group of at least five individuals to prevent stress and to promote natural shoaling behavior. Avoid housing
them with slow-moving or very small fish, as their active nature may intimidate more timid species.

## Breeding

Breeding **Systomus asoka** in captivity can be challenging, but it is possible under the right conditions. Asoka Barbs
are egg scatterers, and they will lay their eggs in fine-leaved plants or over rocks. To encourage breeding, set up a
separate breeding tank with soft, slightly acidic water and plenty of plants. Condition the breeding pair with a
high-protein diet of live and frozen foods. Once eggs are laid, remove the adults to prevent them from eating the eggs.
The eggs typically hatch within 24-36 hours, and the fry should be fed infusoria or liquid fry food until they are large
enough to consume finely crushed flake food or micro-pellets.
