---
draft: true
title: Heckel Discus
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Symphysodon heckel, or Heckel Discus, is a stunning and vibrant freshwater fish from the Amazon River Basin, known for
  its distinctive color patterns and demanding care requirements.
---

## Overview

**Symphysodon heckel**, commonly known as the Heckel Discus, is a beautiful and highly prized freshwater fish
originating from the Amazon River Basin in South America. It is recognized for its striking coloration, typically
featuring vibrant blue and red hues with unique vertical black bars that help differentiate it from other discus
species. The Heckel Discus can grow to a size of 12-15 cm (5-6 inches) and is a popular choice among advanced aquarists
due to its specific care needs and sensitivity to water conditions.

## Tank Requirements

Heckel Discus require a carefully maintained environment to thrive. A tank of at least 250 liters (65 gallons) is
recommended for a small group of these social fish, as they prefer to be kept in groups of five or more. The water
temperature should be maintained between 26-30°C (79-86°F), with a pH of 5.0 to 6.5 and a general hardness (GH) of 1-8.
The aquarium should be heavily planted, providing plenty of hiding places and subdued lighting to mimic their natural
habitat. Strong filtration is necessary, but water flow should be gentle as discus prefer calmer waters.

## Feeding and Diet

Heckel Discus are omnivores, and their diet should be varied to ensure they receive all necessary nutrients. A
combination of high-quality flake or pellet food, frozen or live foods such as bloodworms, brine shrimp, and daphnia, is
ideal. It's important to feed them small amounts multiple times a day, rather than one large feeding, to maintain water
quality and prevent waste buildup.

## Care and Maintenance

Due to their sensitivity to water quality and specific needs, Heckel Discus are considered challenging to care for. They
require regular water changes—at least 20-25% weekly—to keep the water parameters stable and free of toxins. Monitoring
pH, temperature, and hardness is crucial, as even slight changes can stress these fish and lead to health issues. It's
also important to keep the aquarium free from nitrates and other pollutants by maintaining a clean substrate and
avoiding overfeeding.

## Compatibility

Heckel Discus are generally peaceful but can be shy and easily stressed in the presence of more aggressive or active
tank mates. They are best kept with other calm, non-aggressive species that share similar water parameter requirements.
Suitable tank mates include other discus species, tetras, small catfish like Corydoras, and some dwarf cichlids. Avoid
keeping them with large or aggressive fish that could outcompete them for food or bully them.

## Breeding

Breeding Heckel Discus can be quite challenging due to their specific water requirements and the need for stable
conditions. They are known to form monogamous pairs and will lay their eggs on flat surfaces, such as leaves or
driftwood. Raising the temperature slightly and ensuring the water is soft and slightly acidic can help encourage
spawning. Once the eggs are laid, the parents will guard them diligently, and the fry should be fed with infusoria or
specially prepared fry food until they are large enough to accept brine shrimp or other small foods.
