---
draft: true
title: Panduro Apistogramma
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Apistogramma panduro is a small and colorful dwarf cichlid, perfect for experienced aquarists due to their more
  specific care needs.
---

## Overview

**Apistogramma panduro** is a strikingly beautiful dwarf cichlid species native to South America, specifically the
Peruvian Amazon. It features vibrant blue and black colorations with occasional yellow markings. Males tend to be more
colorful and slightly larger than females. These fish generally grow to around 5-6 cm and live for about 4-6 years when
kept in optimal conditions.

**Apistogramma panduro** is ideal for experienced aquarists as it has specific water requirements and is sensitive to
changes in water quality. This species is generally peaceful but can become territorial, especially during breeding.

## Tank Requirements

A minimum tank size of 50 liters is recommended for **Apistogramma panduro**. The water should be kept between 24-28Â°C,
with a pH level of 5.0-7.0 and water hardness (GH) between 1-10. A well-planted aquarium with plenty of hiding places
such as caves and driftwood is necessary for them to feel secure. Dim lighting and soft, slightly acidic water will help
recreate their natural habitat and reduce stress.

## Feeding and Diet

**Apistogramma panduro** is an omnivorous species that prefers a varied diet. A combination of high-quality pellets,
live, or frozen foods such as brine shrimp, bloodworms, and daphnia will keep them healthy. They may also accept
vegetable matter, such as spirulina, which supports their overall wellbeing. A rich and varied diet ensures that they
maintain their striking colors.

## Care and Maintenance

While **Apistogramma panduro** can thrive in well-maintained tanks, they require more attention compared to some other
species due to their sensitivity to water quality. Weekly water changes and stable parameters are crucial. Use gentle
filtration to avoid stressing them. These fish are peaceful but territorial, especially during breeding, so provide
plenty of hiding spaces to minimize conflicts.

## Compatibility

**Apistogramma panduro** can be kept with other small, peaceful species like tetras and small catfish. However, they can
become more territorial during breeding. It's best to keep them in pairs or with similarly sized, non-aggressive tank
mates to avoid aggression.

## Breeding

Breeding **Apistogramma panduro** is possible in the home aquarium under the right conditions. They are cave spawners,
and females will lay eggs in hidden areas. The female tends to the eggs while the male protects the territory. The eggs
usually hatch in 2-3 days, and the fry become free-swimming after about a week. Fry should be fed with microfoods like
infusoria or finely ground flakes.
