---
draft: true
title: Dwarf Horseface Loach
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Acanthopsoides molobrion, known as the Dwarf Horseface Loach, is a small, nocturnal fish with a slender body, suitable
  for peaceful community aquariums.
---

## Overview

Acanthopsoides molobrion, commonly known as the Short-tailed Loach or Dwarf Loach, is a small, slender freshwater fish
native to Southeast Asia. This species typically grows to a length of 3-5 cm and has a unique appearance with its
elongated body and short tail. The Short-tailed Loach is primarily nocturnal, meaning it is most active during the
night. It is a peaceful species that can be kept in community tanks with other small, non-aggressive fish. With a
lifespan of 2-3 years, this loach is a delightful addition to a well-maintained aquarium.

## Tank Requirements

The Short-tailed Loach requires a tank with a minimum volume of 40 liters. The ideal water temperature for this species
ranges from 22-28°C, with a pH level of 6.0-7.5 and general hardness (GH) between 5-12. A soft substrate, such as sand
or fine gravel, is recommended to protect their delicate barbels. The tank should be well-planted, with plenty of hiding
spots created by rocks, driftwood, and plants to mimic their natural environment. A dimly lit tank is preferable, as
this species is nocturnal and thrives in low light conditions. Regular water changes and good filtration are essential
for maintaining water quality.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, Acanthopsoides molobrion feeds on small invertebrates and organic matter found in the substrate. In an
aquarium, they should be offered a varied diet that includes high-quality sinking pellets, algae wafers, and live or
frozen foods such as bloodworms, brine shrimp, and daphnia. Feeding should be done in the evening or at night to match
their natural activity pattern. Providing food that sinks to the bottom of the tank is crucial, as these loaches are
bottom feeders.

## Care and Maintenance

The Short-tailed Loach is a hardy species, but proper care is important to ensure their well-being. Weekly water changes
of 20-25% are recommended to keep the water clean and free of toxins. Regularly monitor the water parameters,
particularly pH and hardness, to ensure they remain within the appropriate range. Since this species is nocturnal,
maintaining a consistent lighting schedule and providing plenty of hiding places will help reduce stress. Keep an eye
out for signs of disease or stress, and maintain a stable environment to keep them healthy.

## Compatibility

Acanthopsoides molobrion is a peaceful species that can be kept in community tanks with other small, non-aggressive
fish. They are best kept in groups of 4-6 individuals, as they are social and prefer the company of their own kind.
Suitable tank mates include small tetras, rasboras, and other peaceful loaches. Avoid housing them with larger or
aggressive species that may bully or outcompete them for food. Their nocturnal nature and peaceful demeanor make them a
great addition to a calm, low-light aquarium.

## Breeding

Breeding Acanthopsoides molobrion in captivity is difficult and rarely successful in home aquariums. They are
egg-scatterers, and breeding usually requires a dedicated setup with slightly softer water and a temperature on the
higher end of their range (around 26-28°C). Providing fine-leaved plants or spawning mops for the female to deposit eggs
is crucial. After spawning, the adults should be removed to prevent them from eating the eggs. The eggs typically hatch
in a few days, and the fry can be fed infusoria or newly hatched brine shrimp.
