---
draft: true
title: Bumblebee Goby
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Brachygobius doriae, commonly known as the Bumblebee Goby, is a small, colorful species known for its distinctive
  yellow and black stripes and active behavior in freshwater aquariums.
---

## Overview

**Brachygobius doriae**, also known as the Bumblebee Goby, is a small, vibrantly colored species belonging to the
Gobiidae family. Native to Southeast Asia, these gobies are recognized for their striking yellow and black banded
patterns, reminiscent of a bumblebee. They are a popular choice for nano aquariums due to their small size, reaching
only 3-4 cm (1.2-1.6 inches) in length, and their interesting behaviors. Bumblebee Gobies are primarily bottom dwellers
and can be quite territorial, especially with their own kind.

## Tank Requirements

Bumblebee Gobies require a tank size of at least 40 liters (10 gallons). They thrive in slightly brackish to freshwater
conditions, with temperatures between 24-28°C (75-82°F), a pH range of 6.5-7.5, and general hardness (GH) of 5-15. A
well-decorated tank with plenty of hiding spots, such as plants, rocks, and small caves, is ideal for creating a
comfortable environment for these gobies. Fine sand or small gravel substrate is recommended as they enjoy sifting
through the substrate in search of food. As bottom dwellers, they are sensitive to water quality, so a good filtration
system and regular water changes are essential.

## Feeding and Diet

Brachygobius doriae are carnivorous and require a diet rich in live and frozen foods. They thrive on small foods like
brine shrimp, daphnia, bloodworms, and micro worms. Due to their small size and shy nature, it is important to ensure
they receive adequate food during feeding times, especially in a community setting. They can also be fed high-quality
sinking pellets or granules designed for carnivorous fish, but live and frozen foods should make up the bulk of their
diet to keep them healthy and vibrant.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for Bumblebee Gobies involves maintaining stable water conditions with a focus on water quality, as they can be
sensitive to pollutants. Regular water changes (20-30% weekly) and a robust filtration system are recommended.
Additionally, while they are generally hardy, they can be prone to parasitic infections if water quality deteriorates.
It's important to monitor for signs of illness, such as loss of color or appetite, and address any water quality issues
promptly.

## Compatibility

Bumblebee Gobies can be kept with other small, peaceful species that share similar water requirements. They can be
territorial, especially towards their own kind, so it’s best to keep them in small groups of at least six to distribute
aggression. Tank mates should not be overly aggressive or fast-swimming, as Bumblebee Gobies are slow feeders and can
easily be outcompeted for food. Ideal tank mates include small tetras, rasboras, and other non-aggressive, small
species.

## Breeding

Breeding Brachygobius doriae in captivity is challenging but possible. They are egg layers that spawn in small crevices
or caves. To encourage breeding, provide a breeding tank with plenty of hiding spots and optimal water conditions. The
male will guard the eggs after spawning, which typically hatch within a few days. Raising the fry requires feeding them
infusoria or newly hatched brine shrimp until they are large enough to accept larger foods. Due to the difficulty in
breeding, they are more often maintained for their unique appearance and behavior than for breeding purposes.
