---
draft: true
title: Severum
aliases: [Banded Cichlid]
excerpt:
  Heros efasciatus, also known as the Severum, is a popular South American cichlid known for its distinctive banded
  pattern and calm temperament.
---

## Overview

Heros efasciatus, commonly referred to as the Severum or Banded Cichlid, is a robust and attractive freshwater fish
native to the Amazon Basin in South America. It is appreciated in the aquarium hobby for its relatively peaceful nature,
manageable size, and distinctive color patterns. The Severum can grow to a size of 15-25 cm (6-10 inches) and has a
lifespan of 5-10 years in captivity with proper care. They are known for their adaptability and can thrive in a variety
of water conditions, making them suitable for both beginner and experienced aquarists.

## Tank Requirements

Severums require a spacious tank due to their potential size and activity level. A minimum tank size of 200 liters (53
gallons) is recommended. They prefer water temperatures between 24-28째C (75-82째F) and a pH range of 6.0-7.5, with a
general hardness of 4-10 dGH. The aquarium should have a soft substrate, such as sand, and include plenty of hiding
places created by rocks, driftwood, and hardy plants. These fish are known to dig, so it's important to secure any
decorations or plants to prevent them from being uprooted. Moderate water flow and effective filtration are necessary to
maintain water quality and provide a healthy environment.

## Feeding and Diet

Severum Cichlids are omnivorous and thrive on a varied diet. In the wild, they feed on a combination of plant material,
insects, and small crustaceans. In captivity, they should be fed a balanced diet of high-quality cichlid pellets,
flakes, and occasional treats of live or frozen foods such as bloodworms, brine shrimp, and daphnia. It's also
beneficial to supplement their diet with blanched vegetables like spinach, zucchini, and peas to provide essential
nutrients and promote their vibrant coloration.

## Care and Maintenance

Heros efasciatus is a hardy species, but maintaining stable water conditions is crucial to prevent stress and disease.
Regular water changes of 20-30% every week or two are recommended to keep the tank clean and maintain water parameters.
The tank should be well-filtered to handle the waste produced by these fish. Severums are prone to certain diseases such
as hole-in-the-head disease, which can be prevented by maintaining excellent water quality, providing a varied diet, and
avoiding overcrowding in the tank.

## Compatibility

Severums are generally peaceful but can become territorial, especially during breeding. They can be kept with other
similarly sized, non-aggressive fish such as larger tetras, catfish, and peaceful cichlids. However, due to their size
and occasional aggression, they should not be kept with very small or overly aggressive species. Providing plenty of
hiding spots and maintaining a spacious environment can help reduce aggression and stress.

## Breeding

Breeding Severums in captivity is possible but requires specific conditions to encourage spawning. They are substrate
spawners, meaning they will lay eggs on flat surfaces such as rocks or broad leaves. To encourage breeding, raise the
temperature slightly to around 28째C (82째F) and provide a flat surface for spawning. The female can lay up to 300 eggs,
which will be guarded by both parents. The eggs typically hatch within 3-5 days, and the fry become free-swimming a few
days later. The fry can be fed newly hatched brine shrimp or finely crushed flake food.
