---
draft: true
title: Zodiac Loach
aliases: [Spotted Loach]
excerpt:
  Acanthocobitis urophthalmus, known as the Zodiac Loach, is a small, peaceful bottom-dwelling fish, ideal for planted
  aquariums with plenty of hiding spots.
---

## Overview

Acanthocobitis urophthalmus, commonly known as the Zodiac Loach or Spotted Loach, is a small, peaceful fish native to
freshwater streams and rivers in Southeast Asia. This loach typically grows to about 5-7 cm in length and is known for
its distinctive body pattern, which includes a series of dark spots along its sides. The Zodiac Loach is a
bottom-dwelling species that thrives in aquariums with plenty of hiding spots and gentle water flow. With a lifespan of
3-5 years, it is a hardy and interesting addition to a community tank.

## Tank Requirements

The Zodiac Loach requires a well-maintained aquarium with a minimum volume of 60 liters. The ideal water temperature
ranges from 22-26°C, with a pH of 6.5-7.5 and general hardness (GH) between 5-12. They thrive in a tank with a soft
substrate, such as sand or fine gravel, and plenty of hiding spots created by rocks, driftwood, and plants. A gentle
water flow mimics their natural habitat and helps keep them active and healthy. Regular water changes and good
filtration are essential to maintain water quality.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, Acanthocobitis urophthalmus feeds on small invertebrates, algae, and detritus. In captivity, they should be
provided with a varied diet that includes high-quality sinking pellets, algae wafers, and occasional live or frozen
foods such as bloodworms, brine shrimp, and daphnia. Feeding them once or twice a day in small amounts ensures that they
receive the nutrients they need to stay healthy and active. It's important to ensure that food reaches the bottom of the
tank where they prefer to feed.

## Care and Maintenance

Acanthocobitis urophthalmus is a relatively easy species to care for, provided that their tank conditions are
well-maintained. Weekly water changes of 20-25% are recommended to keep the water clean and free of toxins. Regularly
check the water parameters, especially pH and hardness, to ensure they remain within the suitable range. The Zodiac
Loach is sensitive to poor water conditions, so a good filtration system and regular tank maintenance are crucial.
Monitor them for signs of stress or disease, and maintain a stable environment to keep them healthy.

## Compatibility

The Zodiac Loach is a peaceful species that does well in community tanks with other small, non-aggressive fish. They can
be kept with species such as tetras, rasboras, small gouramis, and other loaches. It's best to keep them in groups of at
least 4-6 individuals, as they are social fish that enjoy the company of their own kind. Avoid housing them with larger,
more aggressive fish that may bully or outcompete them for food. Their peaceful nature and compatibility with a variety
of tank mates make them a great choice for a planted aquarium.

## Breeding

Breeding Acanthocobitis urophthalmus in captivity can be challenging and is rarely achieved in home aquariums. They are
egg-scatterers, and successful breeding typically requires a dedicated breeding setup with slightly softer water and a
temperature on the higher end of their range (around 26°C). Provide plenty of fine-leaved plants or spawning mops for
the female to deposit eggs. After spawning, the adults should be removed to prevent them from eating the eggs. The eggs
usually hatch in a few days, and the fry can be fed infusoria or newly hatched brine shrimp.
