---
draft: true
title: Blue Acara
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Aequidens pulcher, commonly known as the Blue Acara, is a popular cichlid known for its vibrant coloration and
  relatively peaceful temperament.
---

## Overview

Aequidens pulcher, commonly referred to as the Blue Acara, is a striking cichlid species native to freshwater rivers and
lakes in Central and South America. It is renowned for its vibrant blue-green coloration and calm demeanor, making it a
favorite among aquarists. Despite being a cichlid, the Blue Acara is relatively peaceful and can be kept in a community
tank with other similarly sized, non-aggressive species. Their hardy nature and manageable size make them suitable for
both novice and experienced aquarists.

## Tank Requirements

Blue Acaras thrive in well-maintained freshwater aquariums that replicate their natural habitat. The ideal temperature
range for Aequidens pulcher is between 23-28°C, with a pH level of 6.5-8.0 and water hardness between 5-15 dGH. A tank
size of at least 200 liters is recommended to provide ample space for swimming and territorial behavior, which is common
among cichlids. The tank should be decorated with rocks, driftwood, and plants to create hiding spots and break up
line-of-sight, reducing potential aggression. Regular water changes and good filtration are essential for maintaining
water quality.

## Feeding and Diet

Aequidens pulcher is an omnivore and enjoys a varied diet. In the wild, they feed on small invertebrates, plant matter,
and detritus. In the aquarium, they can be fed a balanced diet of high-quality cichlid pellets, flakes, and live or
frozen foods such as bloodworms, brine shrimp, and daphnia. Occasional feedings of vegetables like peas or spinach can
also be offered. Providing a diverse diet will help enhance their coloration and overall health.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for Aequidens pulcher involves regular tank maintenance and monitoring water parameters to ensure a healthy
environment. Weekly water changes of 20-25% are recommended to keep nitrate levels low and water conditions stable. The
tank should be equipped with a reliable heater to maintain a consistent temperature, and a good filtration system to
keep the water clean. As Blue Acaras can be territorial, especially during breeding, it’s important to monitor their
behavior and provide enough space and hiding spots to minimize aggression.

## Compatibility

While the Blue Acara is generally more peaceful than many other cichlids, it is still a cichlid and can exhibit
territorial behavior, particularly during breeding. They are best kept with other similarly sized, non-aggressive fish.
Ideal tank mates include larger tetras, peaceful barbs, and other South American cichlids with similar temperaments.
Avoid keeping them with very small fish, as they may view them as prey, or with overly aggressive species that could
stress them.

## Breeding

Breeding Aequidens pulcher in the home aquarium is relatively straightforward, provided the conditions are right. They
are open breeders and will lay their eggs on flat surfaces like rocks or plant leaves. To encourage breeding, increase
the water temperature slightly (to around 26-28°C) and provide plenty of flat surfaces in the tank. The female will lay
several hundred eggs, which the male will then fertilize. Both parents are typically involved in caring for the eggs and
fry, displaying strong parental instincts. Once the fry are free-swimming, they can be fed with finely crushed flakes or
baby brine shrimp.
