---
draft: true
title: Blue Spot Apistogramma
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Apistogramma eunotus, commonly known as the Blue Spot Apistogramma, is a small, colorful cichlid native to the
  Peruvian Amazon, favored by aquarists for its vibrant colors and interesting behavior.
---

## Overview

**Apistogramma eunotus**, also known as the Blue Spot Apistogramma, is a dwarf cichlid species native to the rivers and
streams of the Peruvian Amazon. This small, colorful fish is popular among aquarists for its vibrant blue and yellow
coloration and its engaging behavior. Apistogramma eunotus typically grows to about 5-7 cm (2-2.8 inches) in length,
making it a suitable choice for smaller aquariums. Known for their intelligence and complex social interactions, they
are a rewarding species for both novice and experienced fish keepers.

## Tank Requirements

The Blue Spot Apistogramma thrives in a well-planted aquarium with plenty of hiding spots created using driftwood,
rocks, and dense vegetation. A tank of at least 80 liters (21 gallons) is recommended to provide adequate space for
these active fish. The water should be kept at a temperature between 24-28°C (75-82°F), with a pH range of 5.0 to 7.0
and a general hardness (GH) of 2-10. A soft substrate such as sand is preferred, as these fish enjoy digging and sifting
through the substrate. Good water quality is essential, so regular water changes and efficient filtration are necessary
to maintain a healthy environment.

## Feeding and Diet

Apistogramma eunotus is an omnivore with a preference for protein-rich foods. In the wild, they feed on small
invertebrates and insect larvae. In captivity, their diet should include a mix of high-quality flake or pellet foods,
supplemented with live or frozen foods such as brine shrimp, daphnia, and bloodworms. Providing a varied diet helps to
maintain their vibrant colors and overall health. Feeding should be done 2-3 times daily in small amounts to prevent
overfeeding and maintain water quality.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for Apistogramma eunotus involves maintaining stable water conditions and providing a stress-free environment.
These fish are sensitive to poor water quality and rapid changes in water parameters, so regular monitoring and
maintenance are essential. The tank should be well-covered to prevent jumping, and lighting should be moderate to mimic
their natural habitat. As a relatively peaceful species, they can coexist with other non-aggressive fish of similar
size, but care should be taken to avoid larger, more aggressive tank mates that might intimidate or harm them.

## Compatibility

The Blue Spot Apistogramma is generally peaceful but can be territorial, especially during breeding. They are best kept
in a species-specific tank or with other small, peaceful fish such as tetras, rasboras, or dwarf corydoras. It is
advisable to keep them in pairs or harems (one male with multiple females) to reduce aggression and promote natural
behavior. Providing ample hiding spots and visual barriers will help minimize territorial disputes and stress among tank
inhabitants.

## Breeding

Breeding Apistogramma eunotus in captivity is possible and can be a rewarding experience. They are cave spawners, and
the presence of small caves or crevices in the tank will encourage breeding behavior. The female typically lays 50-100
eggs, which she guards and fans to keep them oxygenated. Once the fry hatch, they can be fed infusoria or finely crushed
flake food until they are large enough to accept baby brine shrimp or microworms. Water quality should be carefully
maintained during the breeding process, as fry are particularly sensitive to changes in water conditions.
