---
draft: true
title: Silver Gar
aliases: [Hujeta Gar, Rocket Gar]
excerpt:
  Ctenolucius hujeta, commonly known as the Silver Gar, is a long-bodied freshwater fish known for its elongated shape
  and predatory nature, making it a popular choice among aquarists who favor larger, more unique species.
---

## Overview

**Ctenolucius hujeta**, commonly referred to as the Silver Gar, Hujeta Gar, or Rocket Gar, is a distinctive freshwater
fish known for its elongated, slender body and predatory behavior. Native to the rivers of Colombia and Venezuela, this
species is highly sought after by aquarists for its unique appearance and dynamic swimming behavior. It typically grows
to a size of 20-30 cm (8-12 inches) and requires a larger tank to accommodate its active nature and territorial
behavior.

## Tank Requirements

Ctenolucius hujeta thrives in a spacious aquarium with plenty of room for swimming. A tank of at least 150 liters (40
gallons) is recommended, with a longer, rectangular shape being ideal to provide ample swimming space. The water should
be kept between 23-28°C (73-82°F) with a pH range of 6.0 to 7.5 and a general hardness (GH) of 5-15. A tank setup that
includes floating plants, driftwood, and areas of dim lighting can help mimic their natural environment and reduce
stress. A secure lid is essential, as these fish are known to be jumpers.

## Feeding and Diet

Silver Gars are primarily carnivorous and have a diet that consists of small fish, insects, and crustaceans in the wild.
In captivity, they can be fed a variety of live or frozen foods such as feeder fish, shrimp, and insects. They may also
accept high-quality carnivorous pellets and freeze-dried foods, although live foods are often necessary to encourage
feeding. It’s important to offer a varied diet to ensure all nutritional needs are met.

## Care and Maintenance

While Ctenolucius hujeta is a relatively hardy species, it requires specific care due to its size and diet. Regular
water changes and filtration are crucial to maintain water quality, especially in a tank with large, active fish. Due to
their predatory nature, they should be kept with similarly sized fish to avoid predation on tank mates. It's essential
to provide hiding spots and plenty of swimming space to prevent stress and territorial aggression.

## Compatibility

Ctenolucius hujeta can be housed with other large, non-aggressive fish that are too big to be seen as prey. Ideal tank
mates include large catfish, larger cichlids, and other predatory species that share similar water parameter
requirements. They are best kept singly or in small groups to reduce aggression. Avoid keeping them with small or
slow-moving fish, as they may become targets for predation.

## Breeding

Breeding Ctenolucius hujeta in captivity is challenging and rarely occurs. They are known to be egg scatterers in the
wild, laying eggs in areas with dense vegetation. In an aquarium setting, replicating these conditions can be difficult,
and breeding attempts often require a dedicated breeding tank with soft, acidic water and ample hiding places for eggs.
Conditioning the fish with a high-quality diet of live foods may encourage spawning, but successful breeding remains
rare.
