---
draft: true
title: Zebra Loach
aliases: [Striata Botia, Candystripe Loach]
excerpt:
  Botia striata, or Zebra Loach, is a peaceful and active fish known for its striking zebra-like stripes. It's a popular
  choice for community aquariums.
---

## Overview

Botia striata, commonly known as the Zebra Loach, is a small, active, and peaceful fish species that originates from the
rivers of India. These loaches are easily recognizable by their bold, zebra-like stripes running along their bodies.
Typically growing to about 6-8 cm in length, Zebra Loaches are social creatures that thrive in groups and are known for
their lively behavior. They are often seen foraging along the bottom of the tank, making them excellent additions to
community aquariums.

## Tank Requirements

Zebra Loaches require a well-maintained freshwater tank with a minimum volume of 100 liters. The ideal water temperature
ranges from 24-28°C, with a pH level between 6.0 and 7.5 and a general hardness (GH) of 5-12. A soft, sandy substrate is
preferred to protect their sensitive barbels, and the tank should be equipped with plenty of hiding places, such as
caves, driftwood, and plants. A moderate water flow and efficient filtration system are essential to replicate their
natural habitat and maintain water quality.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, Botia striata primarily feeds on small invertebrates and plant matter. In captivity, they should be
provided with a varied diet that includes high-quality sinking pellets, live or frozen foods such as bloodworms, brine
shrimp, and daphnia, and occasional vegetable matter like blanched spinach or zucchini. Feed them 1-2 times daily,
ensuring the food reaches the bottom where they typically feed.

## Care and Maintenance

Botia striata is relatively easy to care for as long as their water quality is maintained. Regular weekly water changes
of 20-30% are recommended to keep the tank conditions optimal. These loaches are social and should be kept in groups of
at least 5-6 individuals to reduce stress and encourage natural behavior. Monitor the tank for signs of disease, as
loaches can be susceptible to Ich, particularly if the water quality deteriorates. Early detection and treatment are
crucial for their health.

## Compatibility

Zebra Loaches are peaceful and can coexist with a variety of tank mates, including other small to medium-sized,
non-aggressive fish. Ideal companions include tetras, rasboras, gouramis, and other loaches. Avoid housing them with
large, aggressive species that may view them as prey. Due to their social nature, they do best in community tanks and
should not be kept alone.

## Breeding

Breeding Botia striata in captivity is challenging and rarely successful in home aquariums. To attempt breeding, a
separate breeding tank with soft water and plenty of hiding spots is recommended. The water temperature should be
slightly elevated to around 26-28°C. Females will scatter eggs among the plants and substrate, and the parents should be
removed after spawning to prevent them from eating the eggs. The fry are difficult to raise and require very fine food,
such as infusoria, until they are large enough to consume more substantial fare.
