---
draft: true
title: Bumblebee Goby
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Brachygobius xanthomelas, commonly known as the Bumblebee Goby, is a small, brackish water fish known for its
  distinctive black and yellow banding and peaceful demeanor.
---

## Overview

Brachygobius xanthomelas, also known as the Bumblebee Goby, is a small, brackish water fish native to Southeast Asia,
particularly in the coastal regions of Thailand and Indonesia. Known for their striking black and yellow banding, these
gobies are a popular choice for small aquariums. They typically reach a size of 2.5-3.5 cm and have a lifespan of about
2-3 years with proper care. Due to their small size and specific water requirements, they are best suited for
specialized aquariums with some experience in fishkeeping.

## Tank Requirements

Bumblebee Gobies thrive in a well-maintained aquarium of at least 40 liters, with brackish water conditions. They prefer
a temperature range of 24-28°C, a pH of 7.0-8.5, and a general hardness (GH) of 8-20 dGH. The tank should have plenty of
hiding spots, such as rocks, caves, and driftwood, to mimic their natural habitat and reduce stress. A substrate of fine
sand or smooth gravel is ideal. Keeping the water slightly brackish with a specific gravity of around 1.005-1.010 is
crucial for their health and longevity.

## Feeding and Diet

Brachygobius xanthomelas are carnivorous and thrive on a diet of live and frozen foods. In the wild, they feed on small
invertebrates and zooplankton. In the aquarium, they should be provided with a variety of foods, such as live or frozen
brine shrimp, daphnia, bloodworms, and tubifex. While they may accept high-quality flake foods or pellets, live or
frozen foods should form the bulk of their diet to ensure optimal health and coloration. Feeding them small amounts 2-3
times a day is recommended to prevent overfeeding and maintain water quality.

## Care and Maintenance

Proper care of Bumblebee Gobies includes maintaining stable water conditions and ensuring the brackish nature of the
water is consistent. Regular water changes of 20-30% weekly are necessary to keep the water clean and reduce the buildup
of harmful substances. Monitoring water parameters such as salinity, pH, and hardness is essential to prevent stress and
disease. They are generally hardy fish but can be susceptible to stress-related illnesses if their environmental needs
are not met.

## Compatibility

Bumblebee Gobies are peaceful but territorial, especially with their own kind. They are best kept in species-only tanks
or with other small, peaceful brackish water species. Avoid keeping them with large, aggressive fish or fast-swimming
species that may outcompete them for food. When housed with other Bumblebee Gobies, ensure there are plenty of hiding
spots to reduce aggression and establish territories. Maintaining a ratio of one goby per 10 liters of water is a good
practice to prevent overcrowding and stress.

## Breeding

Breeding Brachygobius xanthomelas in captivity can be challenging but rewarding. A separate breeding tank with brackish
water, a temperature around 26-28°C, and plenty of hiding spots is recommended. Males will often court females with
displays and lead them to a chosen spawning site. After spawning, the male guards the eggs until they hatch, usually
within 7-10 days. The fry can be fed infusoria or finely crushed flake food, gradually moving on to baby brine shrimp as
they grow.
