---
draft: true
title: Spotted Scat
aliases: [Argus Fish]
excerpt:
  Scatophagus argus, also known as the Spotted Scat, is a hardy, brackish water fish known for its distinctive spotted
  appearance and adaptability to a wide range of salinities.
---

## Overview

**Scatophagus argus**, commonly known as the Spotted Scat or Argus Fish, is a popular brackish water species that is
native to the coastal regions of the Indo-Pacific. These fish are well-known for their unique, rounded bodies covered in
vibrant spots, and they can grow to a length of 30-38 cm. They are a highly adaptable species that can thrive in both
brackish and marine environments.

With a lifespan of up to 15 years, Scatophagus argus is a hardy fish, but it requires a large tank due to its size and
active nature. Its striking appearance and ease of care make it a common choice for aquarists who specialize in brackish
water tanks.

## Tank Requirements

**Scatophagus argus** thrives in large aquariums with a minimum capacity of 300 liters, as they grow large and are
active swimmers. They prefer water temperatures between 24-28°C, with a pH range of 7.5-8.5 and general hardness (GH)
between 10-20 dGH.

This species is typically kept in brackish water, though they can tolerate full marine conditions as they mature. When
keeping them in a brackish setup, it’s important to gradually increase salinity as the fish grows. A mixture of
saltwater and freshwater is necessary to replicate their natural habitat.

Decorating the tank with rocks, driftwood, and salt-tolerant plants can provide hiding spots and reduce stress for the
fish. However, care must be taken when selecting plants, as Scats are known to nibble on vegetation.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, **Scatophagus argus** is omnivorous, feeding on algae, detritus, and small invertebrates. In an aquarium,
they will accept a variety of foods, including flakes, pellets, and live or frozen foods such as brine shrimp,
bloodworms, and small crustaceans.

It is recommended to feed them a balanced diet with plant-based components to mimic their natural feeding habits. They
may also eat algae growing in the tank, which can help keep the tank clean.

## Care and Maintenance

**Scatophagus argus** is a relatively hardy species, but good water quality is essential for their health. Regular water
changes of 20-30% per week are necessary to keep the tank clean and stable. Ensuring proper filtration and maintaining
appropriate salinity levels is key to their well-being.

These fish can be sensitive to poor water conditions, especially if salinity levels fluctuate too rapidly, so it is
important to monitor the water parameters closely. Their size and activity level also mean that they produce a fair
amount of waste, requiring strong filtration.

## Compatibility

**Scatophagus argus** is generally peaceful, though they may show aggression toward smaller fish, especially if kept in
an overcrowded environment. They do best in tanks with other large, brackish water fish like monos, archerfish, or even
certain species of larger marine fish.

Avoid keeping them with very small or delicate species, as they may nip at fins or bully them. They are also known to
nibble on plants, so tank mates should be chosen accordingly.

## Breeding

Breeding **Scatophagus argus** in captivity is rare due to the specific conditions required, including a transition to
full marine water for spawning. In the wild, they migrate to the sea to breed, where eggs are released and fertilized.
The fry are then carried by tides into brackish water.

Successfully replicating this in an aquarium is difficult, and there are few reports of successful captive breeding.
Most Scats available in the aquarium trade are wild-caught or bred in specialized breeding facilities.
