---
draft: true
title: Zebra Loach
aliases: [Banded Loach]
excerpt:
  Acanthocobitis zonalternans, also known as the Zebra Loach, is a small, active bottom-dwelling fish with striking
  black and white bands, ideal for community tanks.
---

## Overview

Acanthocobitis zonalternans, commonly known as the Zebra Loach or Banded Loach, is a small freshwater fish native to
fast-flowing streams and rivers in Southeast Asia. This species typically grows to a length of 5-8 cm and is easily
recognized by its distinctive black and white banding along its body. The Zebra Loach is a lively bottom-dweller that
thrives in well-planted aquariums with plenty of hiding spots. With a lifespan of 3-5 years, this fish is a great choice
for aquarists looking to add some activity and color to their tanks.

## Tank Requirements

The Zebra Loach requires a well-maintained aquarium with a minimum volume of 60 liters. The ideal water temperature
ranges from 22-26°C, with a pH of 6.5-7.5 and general hardness (GH) between 5-12. This species thrives in a tank with a
soft substrate, such as sand or fine gravel, and plenty of rocks, driftwood, and plants to provide hiding spots. A
moderate to strong water flow is beneficial, as it mimics their natural habitat. Regular water changes and good
filtration are essential to maintain optimal water quality.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, Acanthocobitis zonalternans feeds on small invertebrates, algae, and organic matter. In an aquarium
setting, they should be provided with a varied diet that includes high-quality sinking pellets, algae wafers, and
occasional live or frozen foods such as bloodworms, brine shrimp, and daphnia. Feeding them once or twice a day in small
amounts will keep them healthy and active. It's important to ensure that food reaches the bottom of the tank, where
these fish prefer to feed.

## Care and Maintenance

The Zebra Loach is a hardy species, but proper care and maintenance are crucial to keeping them healthy. Weekly water
changes of 20-25% are recommended to keep the water clean and free of toxins. Regularly check the water parameters,
especially pH and hardness, to ensure they remain within the suitable range. The Zebra Loach is sensitive to poor water
conditions, so a good filtration system and regular tank maintenance are essential. Monitor the fish for signs of stress
or disease and maintain a stable environment to keep them in good health.

## Compatibility

The Zebra Loach is a peaceful species that does well in community tanks with other small, non-aggressive fish. They can
be kept with species such as tetras, rasboras, and small gouramis. It's best to keep them in groups of at least 4-6
individuals, as they are social fish that enjoy the company of their own kind. Avoid housing them with larger, more
aggressive fish that may bully them or outcompete them for food. Their active nature and striking appearance make them a
lively and attractive addition to a planted aquarium.

## Breeding

Breeding Acanthocobitis zonalternans in captivity can be challenging and is rarely achieved in home aquariums. They are
egg-scatterers, and successful breeding typically requires a dedicated breeding setup with slightly softer water and a
temperature on the higher end of their range (around 26°C). Providing plenty of fine-leaved plants or spawning mops for
the female to deposit eggs is crucial. After spawning, the adults should be removed to prevent them from eating the
eggs. The eggs usually hatch in a few days, and the fry can be fed infusoria or newly hatched brine shrimp.
