---
draft: true
title: Diamond Tetra
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Moenkhausia pittieri, known as the Diamond Tetra, is a stunning freshwater fish renowned for its iridescent scales and
  peaceful nature, making it a popular choice for community tanks.
---

## Overview

Moenkhausia pittieri, commonly known as the Diamond Tetra, is a captivating freshwater fish native to Venezuela. Its
name comes from the shimmering, diamond-like appearance of its scales, which reflect light beautifully. Growing to about
5-6 cm in length, this species is ideal for aquarists looking for a peaceful, eye-catching addition to their community
tank. Diamond Tetras are schooling fish, so they thrive in groups, displaying their best colors and behaviors when kept
in shoals of six or more.

## Tank Requirements

Diamond Tetras are relatively hardy and adaptable, but they thrive best in a well-maintained aquarium with a minimum
volume of 75 liters. The water temperature should be kept between 24-28°C, with a pH range of 6.0-7.5 and water hardness
(GH) between 5-15 dGH. A planted tank with dim lighting and a dark substrate will help bring out the iridescence of
their scales. Providing some open areas for swimming as well as hiding spots will make them feel secure and reduce
stress.

## Feeding and Diet

In their natural habitat, Moenkhausia pittieri are omnivores, feeding on a variety of small invertebrates and plant
material. In captivity, they can be fed a balanced diet of high-quality flake food, micro-pellets, and live or frozen
foods such as brine shrimp, daphnia, and bloodworms. Offering a varied diet will enhance their color and vitality.
Feeding them 2-3 times a day in small amounts is ideal to prevent overfeeding and maintain water quality.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for Diamond Tetras involves regular water changes, typically 25-30% weekly, to keep the water parameters stable
and the tank environment clean. It’s important to monitor water quality and ensure that the filtration system is working
efficiently. Although they are generally hardy, Diamond Tetras can be susceptible to common freshwater fish diseases, so
maintaining good water quality and observing their behavior regularly will help prevent health issues.

## Compatibility

Moenkhausia pittieri are peaceful fish that do well in community tanks with other small, non-aggressive species.
Suitable tank mates include other tetras, rasboras, Corydoras, and small catfish. They should be kept in groups of at
least six to encourage natural schooling behavior and reduce stress. Avoid housing them with large or aggressive species
that could view them as prey.

## Breeding

Breeding Diamond Tetras in captivity is possible, though it requires careful attention to water conditions and setup. A
separate breeding tank with soft, slightly acidic water (pH 6.0-6.5) and a temperature of 26-28°C is recommended. Use
fine-leaved plants or a spawning mop to provide a surface for the eggs. Once spawning occurs, remove the adults to
prevent them from eating the eggs. The eggs will hatch in about 24-36 hours, and the fry can be fed infusoria or
commercially prepared fry food until they are larg
