---
draft: true
title: Arulius Barb
aliases: [Longfin Barb]
excerpt:
  Dawkinsia arulius, known as the Arulius Barb, is a lively and visually striking species, recognized for its long fins
  and metallic body. A popular choice for community aquariums.
---

## Overview

Dawkinsia arulius, commonly known as the Arulius Barb or Longfin Barb, is a beautiful and energetic freshwater fish
native to the rivers and streams of India. This species is known for its elongated fins and shimmering, metallic body
that displays a mix of colors, including silver, gold, and black. Arulius Barbs can grow to a size of 12-15 cm, making
them a medium-sized fish suitable for larger community tanks. They are active swimmers and enjoy being in groups, adding
vibrancy and movement to the aquarium.

## Tank Requirements

Arulius Barbs thrive in well-maintained freshwater tanks with a minimum volume of 120 liters. The ideal water
temperature for these fish ranges between 22-26°C, with a pH level of 6.0 to 7.5 and a general hardness (GH) of 5-15.
They prefer tanks with plenty of swimming space, so minimal decorations and open areas are recommended. However, some
plants and driftwood can be added to mimic their natural habitat and provide occasional hiding spots. A moderate water
flow and good filtration are essential to maintain water quality and oxygenation.

## Feeding and Diet

In their natural habitat, Dawkinsia arulius primarily feeds on small invertebrates, algae, and plant matter. In the
aquarium, they should be offered a varied diet consisting of high-quality flakes or pellets, supplemented with live or
frozen foods such as bloodworms, brine shrimp, and daphnia. They also appreciate occasional vegetable matter, such as
blanched spinach or lettuce. Feed them 2-3 times daily, ensuring that they receive enough nutrition to maintain their
energy levels and vibrant colors.

## Care and Maintenance

Arulius Barbs are relatively easy to care for, provided their water quality is consistently maintained. Regular weekly
water changes of 20-30% are recommended to keep the tank environment healthy. These barbs are social fish and should be
kept in groups of at least 6-8 individuals to promote natural behavior and reduce stress. They are generally hardy but
can be prone to common freshwater diseases if water conditions deteriorate. Regular monitoring and prompt treatment are
crucial for their well-being.

## Compatibility

Dawkinsia arulius is a semi-aggressive species that can coexist with a variety of tank mates, provided they are not too
small or timid. Suitable companions include other barbs, larger tetras, gouramis, and catfish. Avoid housing them with
slow-moving or long-finned species, as Arulius Barbs may nip at their fins. They are best kept in a species tank or with
other robust, active fish that can keep up with their lively nature.

## Breeding

Breeding Dawkinsia arulius in captivity is possible but requires specific conditions. To encourage spawning, set up a
separate breeding tank with soft, slightly acidic water and a temperature of around 26°C. The tank should be densely
planted or equipped with spawning mops to protect the eggs from being eaten by the parents. After spawning, remove the
adults to prevent them from consuming the eggs. The eggs typically hatch within 24-48 hours, and the fry can be fed
infusoria or finely crushed flake food until they are large enough to consume larger food items.
