---
draft: true
title: Mbu Puffer
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Tetraodon mbu, commonly known as the Mbu Puffer, is a large freshwater pufferfish from the Congo River Basin, known
  for its impressive size and strong personality.
---

## Overview

**Tetraodon mbu**, also known as the Mbu Puffer, is a striking freshwater pufferfish native to the Congo River Basin in
Central Africa. This species is renowned for its large size, often reaching up to 60-75 cm (24-30 inches) in captivity,
making it one of the largest freshwater puffers. The Mbu Puffer is known for its intelligence, strong personality, and
ability to recognize its owners. Due to its size and specific care requirements, it is recommended for experienced
aquarists.

## Tank Requirements

The Mbu Puffer requires a very large aquarium, with a minimum size of 1000 liters (264 gallons) to accommodate its
potential size and active nature. The water temperature should be maintained between 24-28°C (75-82°F), with a pH range
of 7.0 to 8.0 and a general hardness (GH) of 8-15. The tank should be heavily filtered to manage the large bioload
produced by this species. It is also essential to provide a spacious tank layout with plenty of hiding spots and open
swimming areas. The substrate should be soft, such as sand, to prevent injury to the puffer’s delicate belly.

## Feeding and Diet

Tetraodon mbu is carnivorous and requires a diet rich in meaty foods. In the wild, it primarily feeds on crustaceans,
mollusks, and other invertebrates. In captivity, its diet should include a variety of shellfish like mussels, clams,
snails, and shrimp to help wear down its ever-growing teeth. Feeding live or frozen food such as bloodworms, krill, and
earthworms is also beneficial. It’s important to provide a varied diet to ensure all nutritional needs are met. Feeding
should be done 3-4 times a week, and care must be taken not to overfeed due to the risk of obesity.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for a Mbu Puffer involves maintaining excellent water quality and providing a stable environment. Due to their
size and waste production, a robust filtration system is necessary, along with regular water changes of at least 30-50%
weekly. They are sensitive to poor water conditions, so monitoring parameters regularly is crucial. It’s important to
ensure the tank is securely covered, as Mbu Puffers are known to be jumpers. Additionally, interactions with tank mates
should be closely monitored, as Mbu Puffers can be aggressive and territorial.

## Compatibility

The Mbu Puffer is best kept alone or with other large, robust species, as they can be quite aggressive, especially in
confined spaces. They have been known to nip at the fins of other fish and may view smaller fish as prey. Suitable tank
mates, if any, include large, non-aggressive fish that can tolerate similar water parameters and won’t be intimidated by
the puffer’s presence. Always monitor interactions closely, as individual temperament can vary greatly.

## Breeding

Breeding Tetraodon mbu in captivity is extremely rare and considered highly challenging due to their size and specific
breeding conditions. Little is known about their breeding behavior in the wild, and there are no well-documented cases
of successful breeding in home aquariums. If breeding were to be attempted, it would require a very large tank with
controlled conditions that mimic their natural habitat closely. Until more is known, Mbu Puffers are primarily kept for
their unique personality and impressive size rather than for breeding purposes.
