---
draft: true
title: Canara Barb
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Pethia canius, also known as the Canara Barb, is a small and peaceful fish from the Cyprinidae family, ideal for
  community aquariums with other non-aggressive species.
---

## Overview

**Pethia canius**, commonly referred to as the Canara Barb, is a small freshwater fish belonging to the family
Cyprinidae. Native to the streams and rivers of India, this species is known for its peaceful nature and beautiful
coloration. Canara Barbs are best kept in small schools in community aquariums with other peaceful species. Their
vibrant appearance and easy care requirements make them a popular choice for aquarists looking for a lively addition to
their tank.

## Tank Requirements

Canara Barbs do well in moderately sized aquariums with a minimum capacity of 60 liters (around 16 gallons). The ideal
water temperature for **Pethia canius** is between 20-26°C (68-79°F), with a pH range of 6.5-7.5 and water hardness (GH)
between 5-15. The tank should be well-planted with ample swimming space and good filtration to maintain water quality.
As they are active swimmers, having a spacious tank with plants and open areas is recommended.

## Feeding and Diet

Canara Barbs are omnivorous and will accept a wide range of foods. In the wild, they feed on small insects, crustaceans,
and plant matter. In captivity, they should be fed a varied diet consisting of high-quality flake or pellet food,
supplemented with live or frozen foods like brine shrimp, daphnia, and bloodworms. Including plant-based food items such
as spirulina or blanched vegetables can also benefit their health.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for **Pethia canius** is relatively easy as long as the water parameters are stable and the tank is kept clean.
Regular water changes of about 25-30% weekly will help maintain good water quality. Because they are peaceful and active
swimmers, it's best to keep them in groups of at least six individuals. A well-filtered tank with a steady water flow is
ideal, but avoid strong currents that might stress them.

## Compatibility

Canara Barbs are peaceful and suitable for community tanks. They can coexist with other non-aggressive species such as
tetras, rasboras, small gouramis, and peaceful bottom-dwelling species like Corydoras. They should be housed in groups
of five or more to ensure they feel secure and exhibit natural schooling behavior. Avoid keeping them with larger, more
aggressive fish that may bully or prey on them.

## Breeding

Breeding **Pethia canius** in captivity can be achieved with some preparation. They are egg scatterers and require a
well-planted aquarium or breeding setup with fine-leaved plants for the eggs to adhere to. Conditioning the adults with
a protein-rich diet of live or frozen food will encourage spawning behavior. Once eggs are laid, it's advisable to
remove the parents, as they may eat the eggs. The eggs will hatch in 24-48 hours, and the fry can be fed with infusoria
or liquid fry food until they are large enough to eat finely crushed flake food.
