---
draft: true
title: Empire Gudgeon
aliases: []
excerpt:
  Hypseleotris compressa, commonly known as the Empire Gudgeon, is a small, colorful freshwater fish native to Australia
  and New Guinea, recognized for its striking coloration and adaptability to various water conditions.
---

## Overview

**Hypseleotris compressa**, known as the Empire Gudgeon, is a small, vibrant species belonging to the Eleotridae family.
Found in freshwater rivers and streams in Australia and New Guinea, this fish is known for its adaptability and striking
appearance. The Empire Gudgeon can grow to a size of 7-9 cm (2.8-3.5 inches) and is particularly admired for the bright
red and blue hues displayed by males during the breeding season. This species is relatively peaceful and suitable for
community aquariums with other small, non-aggressive fish.

## Tank Requirements

The Empire Gudgeon requires a tank size of at least 80 liters (20 gallons) to thrive. It prefers a temperature range of
22-28°C (72-82°F), a pH of 6.5-7.5, and general hardness (GH) between 5-12. A well-planted tank with ample hiding spots
created by rocks, driftwood, and vegetation mimics their natural habitat and helps reduce stress. They are adaptable to
various water conditions but prefer a clean, well-oxygenated environment with moderate water flow. Regular water changes
and a good filtration system are crucial to maintaining water quality and health.

## Feeding and Diet

Empire Gudgeons are omnivorous and have a varied diet. In the wild, they feed on small invertebrates, algae, and plant
matter. In an aquarium setting, they accept high-quality flakes, pellets, and frozen foods like bloodworms, brine
shrimp, and daphnia. To keep them in optimal health, it's important to provide a balanced diet that includes both
protein-rich foods and plant matter. Supplementing their diet with live or frozen foods enhances their coloration and
promotes natural foraging behavior.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for Hypseleotris compressa is relatively straightforward due to their hardy nature and adaptability. However,
maintaining stable water conditions and regular water changes (20-30% weekly) is important to prevent the build-up of
toxins. They are generally disease-resistant, but poor water quality can make them susceptible to common fish diseases
like ich and fin rot. It’s important to monitor for any signs of stress or illness and address any water quality issues
promptly.

## Compatibility

Empire Gudgeons are peaceful and can be kept with a variety of similarly sized, non-aggressive fish. Ideal tank mates
include other small, peaceful species like tetras, rasboras, and smaller gouramis. They can be territorial during
breeding, particularly males, so providing plenty of hiding spaces and visual barriers can help reduce aggression. Avoid
housing them with overly aggressive or large fish that might view them as prey.

## Breeding

Breeding Hypseleotris compressa in captivity can be challenging but rewarding. During the breeding season, males become
more colorful and may display more aggressive behavior. Spawning typically occurs in caves or under rocks, where the
female lays eggs that the male guards until they hatch. To encourage breeding, provide a well-structured environment
with plenty of hiding spots and ensure optimal water conditions. The fry are small and should be fed with infusoria or
freshly hatched brine shrimp until they are large enough to accept larger foods.
