---
draft: true
title: Cuckoo Catfish
aliases: [Multi-Spotted Synodontis]
excerpt:
  Synodontis multipunctatus, known as the Cuckoo Catfish, is a unique species of freshwater fish known for its
  fascinating breeding behavior, native to the rocky shores of Lake Tanganyika in Africa.
---

## Overview

**Synodontis multipunctatus**, commonly referred to as the Cuckoo Catfish or Multi-Spotted Synodontis, is a distinctive
freshwater catfish species belonging to the family Mochokidae. Native to the rocky shorelines of Lake Tanganyika in
Africa, this species is renowned for its intriguing cuckoo-like breeding strategy, where it lays its eggs among the eggs
of mouthbrooding cichlids, tricking the cichlids into caring for its offspring. The Cuckoo Catfish grows to a size of
15-25 cm (6-10 inches) and can live for 8-15 years in captivity. This nocturnal species is known for its active and
somewhat boisterous nature, making it a unique addition to a cichlid community tank.

## Tank Requirements

Synodontis multipunctatus requires a spacious aquarium with a minimum volume of 200 liters (53 gallons) to accommodate
its active swimming habits and social behavior. The water temperature should be maintained between 23-28°C (73-82°F),
with a pH range of 7.0-8.5 and a general hardness (GH) of 8-20. A tank setup that mimics its natural habitat, with
plenty of rocky hiding places, caves, and sturdy decorations, will help this species feel secure and reduce stress. They
are best kept in groups of at least 3-5 individuals to encourage natural social behavior and reduce aggression.

## Feeding and Diet

Synodontis multipunctatus is an omnivorous species with a varied diet in the wild, feeding on invertebrates, plant
matter, and detritus. In an aquarium, they should be provided with a balanced diet that includes high-quality sinking
pellets, frozen or live foods such as bloodworms, brine shrimp, and daphnia, and occasional vegetable-based foods like
spirulina wafers. This diet helps ensure they receive all necessary nutrients for healthy growth and coloration. Feeding
should ideally be done in the evening or at night, aligning with their natural nocturnal activity.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for Synodontis multipunctatus requires moderate effort, making them suitable for aquarists with some experience.
Regular water changes of 20-30% weekly are crucial to maintain optimal water quality and prevent the buildup of harmful
substances. Since these catfish are bottom-dwellers, maintaining a clean substrate is essential to prevent the
accumulation of debris. Providing plenty of hiding spots and a varied environment will encourage natural behaviors and
help reduce stress. Be mindful of their somewhat boisterous nature, which may disturb more timid tank mates.

## Compatibility

The Cuckoo Catfish is well-suited to a cichlid community tank, particularly with species from Lake Tanganyika that can
tolerate similar water parameters. They are generally peaceful but can be somewhat competitive during feeding times.
Suitable tank mates include Tanganyikan cichlids like Julidochromis, Neolamprologus, and Altolamprologus species, as
well as other Synodontis species. Avoid keeping them with very small fish or species that require vastly different water
conditions, as this may lead to stress or predation.

## Breeding

Breeding Synodontis multipunctatus in captivity is fascinating but requires specific conditions and preparation. They
exhibit a unique breeding strategy where they lay their eggs among the eggs of mouthbrooding cichlids, relying on the
cichlids to incubate and protect their eggs. To induce breeding, maintain stable water conditions and provide a group of
compatible mouthbrooding cichlids. As the cichlids spawn, the catfish will attempt to deposit their eggs among the
cichlids' clutch. Once the catfish eggs are laid, the cichlids will inadvertently care for them, and the fry will hatch
in 3-5 days, usually feeding on the cichlid eggs. For successful breeding, ensure a separate breeding tank or closely
monitor the tank to manage fry survival.
