---
draft: true
title: Jacob's Cichlid
excerpt:
  A vibrant cichlid from Lake Tanganyika with distinctive coloration and intriguing behavior. Suitable for experienced
  aquarists.
traits:
  scientificName: Aulonocara jacobfreibergi
  aliases: ["Jacob's Cichlid", "Malawi Butterfly"]
  family: Cichlidae
  size: 12-15
  lifespan: 5-10
char:
  activityTime: day
  careLevel: 3
  behaviour: 4
  breedingDifficulty: 3
tankInfo:
  temperature: 24-28
  volume: 200
  gh: 10-20
  ph: 7.5-8.5
---

## Overview

**Aulonocara jacobfreibergi**, commonly known as **Jacob's Cichlid** or **Freiberg's Peacock**, is a captivating
freshwater fish belonging to the Cichlidae family. This species is renowned for its vivid coloration and striking
appearance, making it a favorite among aquarium enthusiasts. Jacob's Cichlid typically displays a dazzling array of
colors, including shades of blue, yellow, and orange, with males often showcasing more vibrant hues than females.

Native to Lake Malawi in East Africa, Aulonocara jacobfreibergi inhabits the rocky shorelines and intermediate zones of
the lake. These regions provide ample hiding spots and a rich supply of food, creating an ideal environment for the
species to thrive. In the wild, Jacob's Cichlid feeds primarily on small invertebrates and zooplankton found within the
substrate.

This species exhibits a moderately peaceful temperament but can display territorial behavior, especially during breeding
periods. Jacob's Cichlid is diurnal, meaning it is most active during the day. With proper care and a well-maintained
tank, this vibrant and dynamic cichlid can be a stunning addition to any freshwater aquarium.

## Tank Requirements

**Aulonocara jacobfreibergi** (Jacob's Cichlid) thrives in a well-maintained aquarium with specific conditions to mimic
its natural habitat. A minimum tank volume of 200 liters (approximately 53 gallons) is essential to provide ample space
for swimming and to accommodate its territorial behavior.

The water temperature should be kept between 24°C and 28°C (75°F to 82°F), as consistent warmth is crucial for the
fish's health and activity. The ideal pH range for Jacob's Cichlid is between 7.8 and 8.6, reflecting the slightly
alkaline conditions found in Lake Malawi. Additionally, the water hardness should be maintained between 10 and 20 dGH,
providing a moderately hard environment that supports the fish’s well-being.

For the substrate, fine gravel or sand is recommended, along with plenty of rocks and caves. These decorations offer
hiding spots and help establish territorial boundaries, which are important for the fish's comfort. A robust filtration
system is necessary to keep the water clean and well-oxygenated, and regular water changes are crucial to maintain high
water quality.

While Jacob's Cichlid can be kept with other cichlids from Lake Malawi, care should be taken to choose compatible tank
mates and provide enough space to minimize aggression. By meeting these requirements, you can ensure a healthy and
vibrant environment for your Jacob's Cichlid.

## Feeding and Diet

**Aulonocara jacobfreibergi** (Jacob's Cichlid) has specific dietary needs to maintain its vibrant health and
coloration. In the wild, Jacob's Cichlid primarily feeds on small invertebrates, zooplankton, and algae found in the
rocky substrate of Lake Malawi. In captivity, their diet should be designed to closely resemble this natural food
source.

A balanced diet for Jacob's Cichlid should include high-quality cichlid pellets or flakes that are rich in protein.
These commercial foods provide essential nutrients and support their overall health. Supplementing their diet with live
or frozen foods, such as brine shrimp, bloodworms, and daphnia, can enhance their coloration and promote natural feeding
behaviors.

It is important to feed Jacob's Cichlid multiple small meals throughout the day rather than one large feeding. This
approach helps mimic their natural feeding patterns and prevents overeating. Additionally, occasional vegetable-based
foods, like spirulina or blanched spinach, can be offered to provide variety and support digestive health.

Avoid overfeeding, as excess food can lead to water quality issues and health problems for the fish. By providing a
varied and balanced diet, you can ensure that Aulonocara jacobfreibergi remains healthy and vibrant in your aquarium.

## Care and Maintenance

**Aulonocara jacobfreibergi** (Jacob's Cichlid) requires regular care and maintenance to ensure a healthy and vibrant
aquarium environment. Routine tasks include monitoring water quality parameters such as temperature, pH, and hardness to
ensure they remain within the optimal range. Regular water changes, typically 20-30% of the tank volume weekly, help
maintain water quality and reduce the buildup of harmful substances.

The aquarium should be equipped with a reliable filtration system to keep the water clean and well-oxygenated. It is
also important to clean the substrate and decorations periodically to prevent the accumulation of detritus and algae.
Monitoring the fish for signs of disease or stress and addressing any issues promptly is essential for their well-being.

## Compatibility

Jacob's Cichlid is a moderately peaceful species but can exhibit territorial behavior, especially during breeding
periods. It is best kept with other cichlids from Lake Malawi that share similar care requirements and temperament.
Compatible tank mates include other peaceful Malawi cichlids such as those from the Aulonocara and Pseudotropheus
genera. Avoid keeping them with overly aggressive species or those that may compete for territory or resources.

Providing ample hiding spots and territories within the tank helps reduce aggression and allows each fish to establish
its own space. This setup promotes a more harmonious environment and reduces the likelihood of conflicts between tank
mates.

## Breeding

Breeding Jacob's Cichlid in captivity can be a rewarding experience, though it requires careful attention to their
needs. This species is a mouthbrooder, with females incubating eggs and fry in their mouths after spawning. To encourage
breeding, ensure that the tank environment is optimal, with stable water conditions and ample hiding spots for the fish
to establish territories.

During breeding, males will display vibrant colors and engage in elaborate courtship behaviors to attract females. Once
a female selects a mate, she will lay eggs on a flat surface, which she then collects in her mouth. After fertilization,
the female will carry the eggs until they hatch into free-swimming fry.

Providing high-quality, finely crushed food and maintaining a clean tank environment are crucial for the health of both
the breeding pair and the fry. Separating the breeding pair from other tank mates can help protect the young and ensure
successful rearing. With proper care, Jacob's Cichlid fry can grow and thrive, continuing the lifecycle of this
fascinating species.
