---
title: Betta Fish
excerpt:
  The betta fish, also known as Siamese fighting fish, is a vibrant and hardy species popular among aquarium enthusiasts
  for its colorful fins and dynamic personality.
traits:
  scientificName: Betta splendens
  aliases: ["Betta Fish"]
  family: Osphronemidae
  size: 6-8
  lifespan: 2-5
char:
  activityTime: day
  careLevel: 2
  behaviour: 4
  breedingDifficulty: 3
tankInfo:
  temperature: 24-30
  volume: 10
  gh: 5-15
  ph: 6.0-7.5
---

## Overview

The betta fish (Betta splendens), also known as the Siamese fighting fish, is a vibrant and hardy species well-known for
its spectacular fin displays and vivid coloration. Native to the shallow waters of Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam,
bettas are adapted to thrive in environments with low oxygen levels, thanks to their labyrinth organ that allows them to
breathe air.

## Tank Requirements

Betta fish can thrive in smaller tanks, but a minimum volume of 10 liters is recommended to ensure they have enough
space to swim and explore. The ideal water temperature for bettas is between 24-30°C, with a pH range of 6.0-7.5 and a
general hardness (GH) of 5-15. A heater is essential to maintain a stable temperature, and a gentle filter is
recommended to keep the water clean without creating strong currents. Bettas appreciate a tank setup with plenty of
plants, hiding spots, and a soft substrate to protect their delicate fins.

## Feeding and Diet

In the wild, bettas are carnivorous and primarily feed on insects and larvae. In an aquarium setting, they should be fed
a varied diet that includes high-quality betta pellets, supplemented with live or frozen foods such as brine shrimp,
bloodworms, and daphnia. Feeding them once or twice a day in small portions will help prevent overfeeding and ensure
they receive proper nutrition.

## Care and Maintenance

Proper care and maintenance are crucial for keeping bettas healthy and vibrant. Perform regular water changes of about
20-30% weekly to maintain water quality. Monitor water parameters frequently and clean the tank and filter as needed.
Bettas are generally hardy, but they can be prone to diseases like fin rot and ich. Keeping the tank clean and
maintaining stable water conditions will help prevent these common health issues.

## Compatibility

Betta fish are known for their aggressive and territorial behavior, especially males. It is generally recommended to
house male bettas alone to prevent fighting. Females can sometimes be kept in a group, known as a sorority, but this
requires careful monitoring and plenty of hiding spots. Suitable tank mates for bettas include peaceful species that do
not nip fins, such as snails, corydoras catfish, and small tetras. Avoid keeping bettas with other aggressive or
fin-nipping species.

## Breeding

Breeding betta fish can be a rewarding but challenging process. To breed bettas, provide a separate breeding tank with a
water temperature of around 28°C and soft, slightly acidic water. Introduce the female to the male's tank gradually. The
male will build a bubble nest on the water surface, and courtship behaviors such as flaring and chasing will follow.
After spawning, the male will care for the eggs in the nest. Remove the female after spawning to prevent aggression.
Once the fry hatch, feed them infusoria or specially prepared fry food until they are large enough to eat baby brine
shrimp.
