---
title: Molly Fish
excerpt:
  Molly fish are hardy and adaptable freshwater fish known for their varied colors and peaceful nature, making them
  great additions to community aquariums.
traits:
  scientificName: Poecilia sphenops
  aliases: []
  family: Poeciliidae
  size: 8-10
  lifespan: 3-5
char:
  activityTime: day
  careLevel: 2
  behaviour: 1
  breedingDifficulty: 2
tankInfo:
  temperature: 24-28
  volume: 75
  gh: 10-30
  ph: 7.0-8.5
---

## Overview

Molly fish (Poecilia sphenops) are popular freshwater aquarium fish appreciated for their colorful appearances and
adaptability. Native to Central and South America, mollies are known for their varied colorations and fin shapes. They
are hardy fish that can adapt to different water conditions, making them suitable for both beginner and experienced
aquarists.

## Tank Requirements

Molly fish thrive in a well-maintained tank with a minimum volume of 75 liters to provide ample swimming space. The
ideal water temperature for mollies is between 24-28Â°C, with a pH range of 7.0-8.5 and a general hardness (GH) of 10-30.
A good filtration system is essential to keep the water clean, as mollies produce a moderate amount of waste. They
appreciate a tank setup with plenty of plants, hiding spots, and open swimming areas.

## Feeding and Diet

Molly fish are omnivorous and have a varied diet. In the wild, they consume algae, small invertebrates, and detritus. In
an aquarium, mollies should be fed a balanced diet that includes high-quality flakes or pellets, supplemented with live
or frozen foods such as brine shrimp, bloodworms, and daphnia. They also benefit from occasional vegetable matter, like
blanched spinach or spirulina. Feeding them 2-3 times a day in small portions will help maintain their health and
vibrancy.

## Care and Maintenance

Molly fish are relatively easy to care for but require regular maintenance to keep their environment clean. Perform
water changes of about 20-30% weekly to maintain water quality. Monitor water parameters regularly and clean the tank
and filters as needed. Mollies are generally healthy but can be prone to common diseases like ich and fin rot.
Maintaining a clean tank and providing a balanced diet will help prevent these issues.

## Compatibility

Molly fish are peaceful and sociable, making them excellent tank mates for community setups. They are best kept in
groups and can coexist with other non-aggressive species. Suitable tank mates include tetras, guppies, rasboras, and
other peaceful livebearers. Avoid keeping mollies with aggressive or fin-nipping species that may cause stress or harm.

## Breeding

Breeding molly fish is relatively straightforward, as they are livebearers. To breed mollies, provide a spacious tank
with plenty of hiding spots for the pregnant females. The female will give birth to free-swimming fry, which should be
separated from the adults to prevent predation. The fry can be fed with infusoria or finely crushed flakes until they
are large enough to eat baby brine shrimp.
