---
title: Angelfish
excerpt:
  The freshwater angelfish is a graceful and popular aquarium fish known for its striking appearance and relatively easy
  care, making it ideal for hobbyists.
traits:
  scientificName: Pterophyllum scalare
  aliases: []
  family: Cichlidae
  size: 15-20
  lifespan: 10-12
char:
  activityTime: day
  careLevel: 3
  behaviour: 2
  breedingDifficulty: 3
tankInfo:
  temperature: 24-28
  volume: 100
  gh: 3-10
  ph: 6.5-7.5
---

## Overview

The freshwater angelfish (Pterophyllum scalare) is a graceful and popular aquarium fish renowned for its striking
appearance. Originating from the Amazon Basin, these fish have a unique triangular body shape, elongated fins, and
vibrant coloration that ranges from silver and black to more exotic patterns. They are typically found in slow-moving
waters with dense vegetation.

## Tank Requirements

Freshwater angelfish thrive in a well-maintained tank with a minimum volume of 100 liters. The ideal water temperature
for angelfish is between 24-28°C, with a pH range of 6.5-7.5 and a general hardness (GH) of 3-10. A heater and a good
filtration system are essential to maintain stable water conditions. They prefer a tank setup with plenty of plants,
driftwood, and hiding spots to mimic their natural habitat. A soft substrate is also recommended to protect their
delicate fins.

## Feeding and Diet

Angelfish are omnivorous and have a varied diet in the wild, consisting of small invertebrates, insects, and plant
matter. In an aquarium, they can be fed a combination of high-quality flakes or pellets, supplemented with live or
frozen foods such as brine shrimp, bloodworms, and daphnia. Feeding them 2-3 times a day with small portions will ensure
they get the necessary nutrients without overfeeding.

## Care and Maintenance

Regular care and maintenance are crucial for keeping angelfish healthy. Perform weekly water changes of about 20-30% to
maintain water quality. Monitor water parameters frequently and clean the tank and filters as needed. Angelfish are
generally hardy, but they can be prone to common diseases like ich and fin rot. Keeping the tank clean and maintaining
stable water conditions will help prevent these issues.

## Compatibility

Angelfish are generally peaceful but can become territorial, especially during breeding. They do well in a community
tank with similarly sized and non-aggressive fish. Suitable tank mates include tetras, rasboras, gouramis, and corydoras
catfish. Avoid keeping them with fin-nipping species or very small fish that may be seen as prey.

## Breeding

Breeding angelfish can be rewarding but requires specific conditions. They form monogamous pairs and prefer to lay their
eggs on flat surfaces like broad leaves or tank glass. To encourage breeding, provide a separate breeding tank with
slightly higher temperatures (around 28°C) and softer water. Look for signs of pairing and courtship behaviors such as
cleaning a spawning site. After laying eggs, the parents will guard and care for them until they hatch. To ensure the
fry's survival, you may need to remove the parents once the eggs hatch and feed the fry with specially prepared food
like baby brine shrimp.
