---
draft: true
title: Discus Fish
excerpt:
  Discus fish are stunning and graceful aquarium inhabitants known for their vibrant colors and distinctive round shape,
  requiring specific care and conditions for optimal health.
traits:
  scientificName: Symphysodon aequifasciatus
  aliases: []
  family: Cichlidae
  size: 12-15
  lifespan: 10-15
char:
  activityTime: day
  careLevel: 5
  behaviour: 2
  breedingDifficulty: 4
tankInfo:
  temperature: 27-30
  volume: 200
  gh: 1-8
  ph: 6.0-7.0
---

## Overview

The discus fish (Symphysodon aequifasciatus) is a highly prized species among aquarium enthusiasts, renowned for its
vibrant colors and distinctive round body shape. Native to the slow-moving waters of the Amazon Basin, discus fish are
often referred to as the "kings of the aquarium" due to their striking appearance and majestic demeanor. They thrive in
warm, soft, and slightly acidic water with plenty of vegetation and hiding spots.

## Tank Requirements

Discus fish require a spacious and well-maintained tank with a minimum volume of 200 liters to accommodate their size
and social nature. The ideal water temperature for discus is between 27-30°C, with a pH range of 6.0-7.0 and a general
hardness (GH) of 1-8. A reliable heater and efficient filtration system are essential to maintain stable water
conditions. Discus fish prefer a tank setup with plenty of plants, driftwood, and hiding places, as well as a soft
substrate to protect their delicate fins.

## Feeding and Diet

Discus fish are omnivorous and have specific dietary needs to maintain their vibrant colors and health. In the wild,
they feed on small invertebrates, plant matter, and detritus. In an aquarium, they should be fed a varied diet that
includes high-quality discus pellets or flakes, supplemented with live or frozen foods such as bloodworms, brine shrimp,
and beef heart. Feeding them 2-3 times a day in small portions will ensure they receive proper nutrition and maintain
optimal health.

## Care and Maintenance

Discus fish are sensitive to water quality and require diligent care and maintenance. Perform regular water changes of
about 25-50% weekly to maintain pristine water conditions. Monitor water parameters frequently and clean the tank and
filters as needed. Discus fish are susceptible to common diseases such as ich and hole-in-the-head disease. Keeping the
tank clean, maintaining stable water conditions, and providing a balanced diet will help prevent these issues.

## Compatibility

Discus fish are generally peaceful but can be shy and sensitive, making them best suited for a calm and stable
environment. They do well in groups of five or more to reduce stress and encourage natural behaviors. Suitable tank
mates include other peaceful species that thrive in similar water conditions, such as cardinal tetras, neon tetras, and
dwarf cichlids. Avoid keeping discus with aggressive or fast-moving fish that may outcompete them for food or cause
stress.

## Breeding

Breeding discus fish can be challenging and requires specific conditions. To breed discus, provide a separate breeding
tank with slightly higher temperatures (around 29-30°C) and very soft, acidic water. The breeding pair will clean a flat
surface, such as a broad leaf or piece of slate, where the female will lay her eggs. Both parents will guard and care
for the eggs until they hatch. The fry will feed on a mucus secretion produced by the parents for the first few weeks.
To ensure the fry's survival, gradually introduce them to finely crushed flakes or baby brine shrimp as they grow.
