---
draft: true
title: Serpae Tetra
aliases: [Red Minor Tetra, Callistus Tetra]
excerpt:
  Hyphessobrycon eques, commonly known as the Serpae Tetra or Red Minor Tetra, is a popular freshwater fish known for
  its bright red coloration and lively behavior in community aquariums.
---

## Overview

Hyphessobrycon eques, commonly known as the Serpae Tetra, Red Minor Tetra, or Callistus Tetra, is a freshwater species
native to the slow-moving rivers and streams of South America, particularly in the Amazon Basin. This tetra is widely
appreciated for its striking red coloration and the black mark on its gill cover, giving it a distinctive look among
aquarium fish. With a typical size of 4-5 cm, these active and hardy fish are a popular choice for community aquariums.
Their average lifespan ranges from 5 to 6 years under good care.

## Tank Requirements

Serpae Tetras are best kept in a well-planted aquarium of at least 60 liters, with plenty of swimming space and areas of
subdued lighting to mimic their natural habitat. They prefer water temperatures between 24-28°C, a pH range of 5.5-7.5,
and general hardness (GH) between 3-10 dGH. A soft substrate and driftwood can help replicate their natural environment.
As schooling fish, Serpae Tetras should be kept in groups of at least six to reduce stress and prevent aggressive
behavior towards tank mates.

## Feeding and Diet

Hyphessobrycon eques are omnivorous and will accept a variety of foods. In the wild, they feed on small invertebrates
and plant matter. In captivity, they can be fed a balanced diet of high-quality flake or pellet food, supplemented with
live or frozen foods such as bloodworms, daphnia, and brine shrimp. Feeding them small amounts 2-3 times a day will
ensure their vibrant colors and active behavior. It's important to maintain a varied diet to prevent nutritional
deficiencies and keep the fish healthy.

## Care and Maintenance

Caring for Serpae Tetras involves regular tank maintenance and water quality monitoring. Weekly water changes of 20-30%
are recommended to keep the water clean and free from toxins. Due to their active nature, they thrive in aquariums with
moderate water flow. The tank should have a secure lid as these tetras can jump when startled. Keeping water parameters
stable and ensuring a healthy diet will help prevent common diseases and keep the fish in good condition.

## Compatibility

Serpae Tetras can be kept with a variety of other peaceful fish, but care should be taken when selecting tank mates.
They are known to be fin-nippers, so it's best to avoid keeping them with slow-moving, long-finned species like
angelfish or guppies. Suitable tank mates include other tetras, rasboras, danios, and bottom-dwelling species such as
Corydoras catfish. Keeping them in a larger group can reduce aggression and promote natural schooling behavior.

## Breeding

Breeding Serpae Tetras in captivity is relatively straightforward but requires a separate breeding tank to increase
success rates. The breeding tank should have soft, slightly acidic water with a pH around 6.5 and a temperature of
26-28°C. Fine-leaved plants or spawning mops should be provided for egg-laying. After spawning, adults should be removed
to prevent them from eating the eggs. The eggs typically hatch within 24-36 hours, and the fry can be fed infusoria or
liquid fry food until they are large enough to consume newly hatched brine shrimp or finely crushed flakes.
