---
draft: true
title: Checker Barb
aliases: [Island Barb]
excerpt:
  Puntius oligolepis, or the Checker Barb, is a small and peaceful freshwater fish known for its striking checkerboard
  pattern and suitability for community tanks.
---

## Overview

**Puntius oligolepis**, commonly known as the Checker Barb or Island Barb, is a small, peaceful freshwater fish that
belongs to the Cyprinidae family. Originating from Indonesia, particularly Sumatra, this species is appreciated by
aquarists for its striking checkerboard pattern on the body and fins, which gives it a unique appearance. Checker Barbs
are a hardy and adaptable species, making them a great choice for community tanks with other small, non-aggressive fish.

## Tank Requirements

Checker Barbs thrive in a well-planted aquarium of at least 40 liters (approximately 10 gallons) with ample swimming
space and hiding spots such as plants, rocks, and driftwood. The ideal water temperature for these barbs is between
22-26°C (72-79°F), with a pH range of 6.0-7.5 and a general hardness (GH) of 5-15. They prefer a soft to moderately hard
water environment that mimics their natural habitat. A fine gravel or sand substrate is recommended to mimic their
natural environment, and moderate water flow will help simulate their native stream conditions.

## Feeding and Diet

**Puntius oligolepis** is an omnivore and enjoys a varied diet. In an aquarium setting, they can be fed high-quality
flakes or pellets as a staple diet. Supplement their diet with live or frozen foods such as brine shrimp, daphnia, and
bloodworms to ensure they receive a well-rounded nutritional intake. Occasionally, provide blanched vegetables like
spinach or zucchini to diversify their diet. Feed them small amounts 2-3 times daily to prevent overfeeding and maintain
water quality.

## Care and Maintenance

Maintaining optimal water quality is essential for the health of Checker Barbs. Perform regular water changes of 20-30%
weekly to keep the water clean and remove any accumulated waste. Ensure the tank is equipped with a reliable filtration
system that provides moderate water flow, as these fish prefer some movement in the water. Regularly monitor water
parameters to ensure they stay within the ideal range for this species, and look out for any signs of stress or disease,
such as clamped fins, loss of color, or erratic swimming.

## Compatibility

Checker Barbs are generally peaceful and do well in community tanks with other small, non-aggressive fish. Ideal tank
mates include other small barbs, tetras, rasboras, danios, and Corydoras catfish. Avoid housing them with larger or more
aggressive species that might bully them. It is best to keep them in groups of at least six to reduce stress and
encourage natural schooling behavior, which enhances their coloration and activity levels.

## Breeding

Breeding **Puntius oligolepis** in captivity is relatively straightforward. These fish are egg scatterers and do not
exhibit parental care. To encourage breeding, set up a separate breeding tank with fine-leaved plants or a spawning mop
where the eggs can settle and be protected from being eaten by the adults. Condition the breeding pair with a diet rich
in live and frozen foods. Once the eggs are laid, remove the parents to prevent them from eating the eggs. The eggs will
hatch in about 24-48 hours, and the fry can be fed infusoria or commercially prepared fry food until they are large
enough to accept crushed flakes or micro-pellets.
